# Chapter 18

---

DIOMEDES TURNED UP half an hour later. {Er|pron|he} had been in a meeting with the Trust, {er|pron|he} said, {dann|adv|then} got stuck on the underground, delayed by a signal failure. {Er|pron|he} asked Yuri to send for me. Yuri found me in {mein|pron|my} office. “Professor Diomedes is {hier|adv|here}. {Er|pron|he}’s with Stephanie. {Sie|pron|they}’re waiting for {du|pron|you}.” “Thanks. {Ich|pron|i}’ll be {richtig|adj|right} {dort|adv|there}.” {Ich|pron|i} made {mein|pron|my} way to Diomedes’s office, expecting the worst. A scapegoat would be needed to {nehmen|verb|take|Nimm das. — Take that.} the blame. {Ich|pron|i}’d seen {es|pron|it} before, at Broadmoor, in cases of suicide: whichever member of staff was closest to the victim was held accountable, be {es|pron|it} therapist, doctor, {oder|conj|or} nurse. No doubt Stephanie was baying for {mein|pron|my} blood. {Ich|pron|i} knocked on the door {und|conj|and} went inside. Stephanie {und|conj|and} Diomedes were standing on either side of the desk. Judging by the tense silence, {Ich|pron|i}’d interrupted a disagreement. Diomedes spoke first. {Er|pron|he} was clearly agitated, {und|conj|and} {sein|pron|his} hands flew all over the place. “Terrible business. Terrible. Obviously {es|pron|it} couldn’t have {kommen|verb|come|Sie kommen morgen. — They come tomorrow.} at a worse time. {Es|pron|it} gives the Trust the perfect excuse to shut us down.” “{Ich|pron|i} hardly {denken|verb|think|Ich denke oft nach. — I often think about it.} the Trust is the immediate concern,” Stephanie said. “The safety of the patients comes first. {Wir|pron|we} {brauchen|verb|need|Ich brauche Zeit. — I need time.} to {finden|verb|find|Ich finde es. — I find it.} out exactly what happened.” {Sie|pron|she} turned to me. “Indira mentioned {du|pron|you} suspected Elif of dealing drugs? {Dass|conj|that}’s how Alicia got hold of the hydrocodone?” {Ich|pron|i} hesitated. “Well, {Ich|pron|i}’ve no proof. {Es|pron|it}’s {etwas|pron|something} {Ich|pron|i}’ve heard a couple of the nurses talking about. {Aber|conj|but} actually {dort|adv|there}’s {etwas|pron|something} else {Ich|pron|i} {denken|verb|think|Ich denke oft nach. — I often think about it.} {du|pron|you} {sollen|verb|should|Ich soll bleiben. — I should stay.} {wissen|verb|know}—” Stephanie interrupted me with a shake of her head. “{Wir|pron|we} {wissen|verb|know} what happened. {Es|pron|it} wasn’t Elif.” “No?” “Christian happened to be passing the nurses’ station, {und|conj|and} {er|pron|he} saw the drugs cabinet was left wide-{öffnen|verb|open|Öffne die Tür. — Open the door.}. {Dort|adv|there} was no one in the station. Yuri had left {es|pron|it} unlocked. Anyone could have gone in {und|conj|and} helped themselves. {Und|conj|and} Christian saw Alicia lurking around the corner. {Er|pron|he} wondered what {sie|pron|she} was

doing {dort|adv|there} at the time. {Jetzt|adv|now} of course {es|pron|it} makes sense.” “How fortunate Christian was {dort|adv|there} to {sehen|verb|see} all {dies|pron|this}.” {Mein|pron|my} voice had a sarcastic tone. {Aber|conj|but} Stephanie chose {nicht|adv|not} to pick up on {es|pron|it}. “Christian isn’t the {nur|adv|only} person who’s noticed Yuri’s carelessness. {Ich|pron|i}’ve {oft|adv|often|Das passiert oft. — That happens often.} felt Yuri is {weit|adj|far|Der Laden ist weit. — The shop is far.} too relaxed about security. Too friendly with the patients. Too concerned with being popular. {Ich|pron|i}’m surprised {etwas|pron|something} {mögen|verb|like|Ich mag das. — I like that.} {dies|pron|this} didn’t happen sooner.” “{Ich|pron|i} {sehen|verb|see}.” {Ich|pron|i} did {sehen|verb|see}. {Ich|pron|i} understood {jetzt|adv|now} why Stephanie was being cordial to me. {Es|pron|it} seemed {Ich|pron|i} was off the hook; {sie|pron|she} had chosen Yuri as the scapegoat. “Yuri {immer|adv|always} seems {also|conj|so} meticulous,” {Ich|pron|i} said, glancing at Diomedes, wondering {wenn|conj|if} {er|pron|he}’d intervene. “{Ich|pron|i} {wirklich|adv|really} don’t {denken|verb|think|Ich denke oft nach. — I often think about it.}—” Diomedes shrugged. “{Mein|pron|my} personal opinion is Alicia has {immer|adv|always} been highly suicidal. As {wir|pron|we} {wissen|verb|know}, when {jemand|pron|someone} wants to die, despite {dein|pron|your} best efforts to protect them, {es|pron|it}’s {oft|adv|often|Das passiert oft. — That happens often.} impossible to prevent {es|pron|it}.” “Isn’t {dass|conj|that} {unser|pron|our} job?” Stephanie snapped. “To prevent {es|pron|it}?” “No.” Diomedes shook {sein|pron|his} head. “{Unser|pron|our} job is to {helfen|verb|help|Kannst du helfen? — Can you help?} them heal. {Aber|conj|but} {wir|pron|we} are {nicht|adv|not} God. {Wir|pron|we} do {nicht|adv|not} have the power over life {und|conj|and} death. Alicia Berenson wanted to die. At some point {sie|pron|she} was bound to succeed. {Oder|conj|or} at least partly succeed.” {Ich|pron|i} hesitated. {Es|pron|it} was {jetzt|adv|now} {oder|conj|or} {nie|adv|never}. “{Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} {also|conj|so} sure {dass|conj|that}’s {wahr|adj|true|Das ist wahr. — That is true.},” {Ich|pron|i} said. “{Ich|pron|i} don’t {denken|verb|think|Ich denke oft nach. — I often think about it.} {es|pron|it} was a suicide attempt.” “{Du|pron|you} {denken|verb|think|Ich denke oft nach. — I often think about it.} {es|pron|it} was an accident?” “No. {Ich|pron|i} don’t {denken|verb|think|Ich denke oft nach. — I often think about it.} {es|pron|it} was an accident.” Diomedes gave me a curious {schauen|verb|look|Schau mal. — Look at that.}. “What are {du|pron|you} trying to {sagen|verb|say}, Theo? What other alternative is {dort|adv|there}?” “Well, to start with, {Ich|pron|i} don’t {glauben|verb|believe|Ich glaube dir. — I believe you.} Yuri gave Alicia the drugs.” “{Du|pron|you} mean Christian is mistaken?” “No,” {Ich|pron|i} said. “Christian is lying.” Diomedes {und|conj|and} Stephanie stared at me, shocked. {Ich|pron|i} went on before {sie|pron|they} could recover their power of speech. {Ich|pron|i} {schnell|adv|quickly|Er lief schnell. — He ran quickly.} told them everything {dass|conj|that} {Ich|pron|i} had {lesen|verb|read|Ich lese ein Buch. — I read a book.} in Alicia’s diary: {dass|conj|that}

Christian had been treating Alicia privately before Gabriel’s murder; {dass|conj|that} {sie|pron|she} was one of several private patients {er|pron|he} saw unofficially, {und|conj|and} {nicht|adv|not} {nur|adv|only} had {er|pron|he} {nicht|adv|not} {kommen|verb|come|Sie kommen morgen. — They come tomorrow.} forward to testify at the trial, {er|pron|he} had pretended {nicht|adv|not} to {wissen|verb|know} Alicia when {sie|pron|she} was admitted to the Grove. “No wonder {er|pron|he} was {also|conj|so} against any attempt to get her talking {wieder|adv|again},” {Ich|pron|i} said. “{Wenn|conj|if} {sie|pron|she} did speak, {sie|pron|she} would be in a position to expose him.” Stephanie stared at me blankly. “{Aber|conj|but}—what are {du|pron|you} saying? {Du|pron|you} {können|verb|can|Ich kann das. — I can do that.}’t seriously be suggesting {dass|conj|that} {er|pron|he}—” “Yes, {Ich|pron|i} am suggesting {es|pron|it}. {Es|pron|it} wasn’t an overdose. {Es|pron|it} was an attempt to murder her.” “Where is Alicia’s diary?” Diomedes asked me. “{Du|pron|you} have {es|pron|it} in {dein|pron|your} possession?” {Ich|pron|i} shook {mein|pron|my} head. “No, {nicht|adv|not} anymore. {Ich|pron|i} gave {es|pron|it} back to Alicia. {Es|pron|it} {müssen|verb|must|Ich muss gehen. — I must go.} be in her room.” “{Dann|adv|then} {wir|pron|we} {müssen|verb|must|Ich muss gehen. — I must go.} retrieve {es|pron|it}.” Diomedes turned to Stephanie. “{Aber|conj|but} first, {Ich|pron|i} {denken|verb|think|Ich denke oft nach. — I often think about it.} {wir|pron|we} {sollen|verb|should|Ich soll bleiben. — I should stay.} call the police. Don’t {du|pron|you}?”

---

## New Words This Chapter

| English | German | Type |
|---------|--------|------|
| can | können | verb |
| look | schauen | verb |
