# Chapter 3

---

CHRISTIAN STARED AT ME, playing with {sein|pron|his} chopsticks. {Er|pron|he} deliberated for a few seconds before {er|pron|he} spoke. “{Dort|adv|there}’s {nicht|adv|not} much to tell. {Ich|pron|i} don’t {wissen|verb|know} what {du|pron|you} want to hear—{oder|conj|or} where {du|pron|you} want me to start.” “Start at the beginning. {Du|pron|you} saw her over a number of years?” “No—{Ich|pron|i} mean, yes—{aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} told {du|pron|you}, {nicht|adv|not} as frequently as {du|pron|you} make {es|pron|it} sound. {Ich|pron|i} saw her two {oder|conj|or} three times after her father died.” “When was the last time?” “About a week before the murder.” “{Und|conj|and} how would {du|pron|you} describe her mental state?” “Oh…” Christian leaned back in {sein|pron|his} chair, relaxing {jetzt|adv|now} {dass|conj|that} {er|pron|he} was on safer ground. “{Sie|pron|she} was highly paranoid, delusional—psychotic, even. {Aber|conj|but} {sie|pron|she}’d been like {dies|pron|this} before. {Sie|pron|she} had a long-standing pattern of mood swings. {Sie|pron|she} was {immer|adv|always} up {und|conj|and} down—typical borderline.” “Spare me the fucking diagnosis. Just {geben|verb|give|Gib mir das. — Give me that.} me the facts.” Christian gave me a wounded look {aber|conj|but} decided {nicht|adv|not} to argue. “What do {du|pron|you} want to {wissen|verb|know}?” “Alicia confided in {du|pron|you} {sie|pron|she} was being watched, correct?” Christian gave me a blank look. “Watched?” “{Jemand|pron|someone} was spying on her. {Ich|pron|i} thought {sie|pron|she} told {du|pron|you} about {es|pron|it}?” Christian looked at me strangely. {Dann|adv|then}, to {mein|pron|my} surprise, {er|pron|he} laughed. “What’s {also|conj|so} funny?” “{Du|pron|you} don’t {wirklich|adv|really} believe {dass|conj|that}, do {du|pron|you}? The Peeping Tom spying through the windows?” “{Du|pron|you} don’t think {es|pron|it}’s {wahr|adj|true|Das ist wahr. — That is true.}?” “Pure fantasy. {Ich|pron|i} should have thought {dass|conj|that} was obvious.” {Ich|pron|i} nodded at the diary. “{Sie|pron|she} writes about {es|pron|it} pretty convincingly. {Ich|pron|i} believed her.”

“Well, of course {sie|pron|she} sounded convincing. {Ich|pron|i}’d have believed her too {wenn|conj|if} {Ich|pron|i} hadn’t known better. {Sie|pron|she} was having a psychotic episode.” “{Also|conj|so} {du|pron|you} keep saying. {Sie|pron|she} doesn’t sound psychotic in the diary. Just scared.” “{Sie|pron|she} had a history—the same thing happened at the place {sie|pron|they} lived before Hampstead. {Dass|conj|that}’s why {sie|pron|they} had to move. {Sie|pron|she} accused an elderly man across the street of spying on her. Made a huge fuss. Turned out the {alt|adj|old|Ein altes Haus. — An old house.} guy was blind—couldn’t even {sehen|verb|see} her, let {allein|adv|alone|Er ist allein. — He is alone.} spy on her. {Sie|pron|she} was {immer|adv|always} highly unstable, {aber|conj|but} {es|pron|it} was her father’s suicide {dass|conj|that} did {es|pron|it}. {Sie|pron|she} {nie|adv|never} recovered.” “Did {sie|pron|she} talk about him with {du|pron|you} at all? Her father?” Christian shrugged. “{Nicht|adv|not} {wirklich|adv|really}. {Sie|pron|she} would {immer|adv|always} insist {dass|conj|that} {sie|pron|she} loved him {und|conj|and} {sie|pron|they} had a {sehr|adv|very} normal relationship—as normal as {es|pron|it} could be, considering her mother killed herself. To be honest, {Ich|pron|i} was lucky to get anything out of Alicia at all. {Sie|pron|she} was pretty uncooperative. {Sie|pron|she} was—well, {du|pron|you} {wissen|verb|know} what {sie|pron|she}’s like.” “{Nicht|adv|not} as well as {du|pron|you}, apparently.” {Ich|pron|i} went on before {er|pron|he} could interrupt, “{Sie|pron|she} attempted suicide after her father’s death?” Christian shrugged. “{Wenn|conj|if} {du|pron|you} like. {Dass|conj|that}’s {nicht|adv|not} what {Ich|pron|i} would call {es|pron|it}.” “What would {du|pron|you} call {es|pron|it}?” “{Es|pron|it} was suicidal behavior, {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} don’t believe {sie|pron|she} intended to die. {Sie|pron|she} was too narcissistic to ever {wirklich|adv|really} want to hurt herself. {Sie|pron|she} took an overdose, more for show than anything else. {Sie|pron|she} was ‘communicating’ her distress to Gabriel —{sie|pron|she} was {immer|adv|always} trying to get {sein|pron|his} attention, {arm|adj|poor|Sie ist arm. — She is poor.} bastard. {Wenn|conj|if} {Ich|pron|i} hadn’t had to respect her confidentiality, {Ich|pron|i}’d have warned him to get the hell out.” “How unfortunate for him {dass|conj|that} {du|pron|you}’re such an ethical man.” Christian winced. “Theo, {Ich|pron|i} {wissen|verb|know} {du|pron|you}’re a {sehr|adv|very} empathetic man—{dass|conj|that}’s what makes {du|pron|you} such a {gut|adj|good|Sehr gut. — Very good.} therapist—{aber|conj|but} {du|pron|you}’re wasting {dein|pron|your} time with Alicia Berenson. Even before the murder, {sie|pron|she} had precious little capacity for introspection {oder|conj|or} mentalizing {oder|conj|or} whatever {du|pron|you} want to call {es|pron|it}. {Sie|pron|she} was entirely consumed with herself {und|conj|and} her art. All the empathy {du|pron|you} have for her, all the kindness—{sie|pron|she} isn’t capable of giving {es|pron|it} back. {Sie|pron|she}’s a lost cause. A total bitch.” Christian said {dies|pron|this} scornfully—{und|conj|and} with absolutely no detectable empathy for such a damaged woman. For a second, {Ich|pron|i} wondered {wenn|conj|if} perhaps Christian

was borderline, {nicht|adv|not} Alicia. {Dass|conj|that} would make a lot more sense. {Ich|pron|i} stood up. “{Ich|pron|i}’m going to {sehen|verb|see} Alicia. {Ich|pron|i} need some answers.” “From Alicia?” Christian looked startled. “{Und|conj|and} how do {du|pron|you} intend to get them?” “By asking her.” {Ich|pron|i} walked out.

---

## New Words This Chapter

| English | German | Type |
|---------|--------|------|
| poor | arm | adj |
| true | wahr | adj |
