# Chapter 19

---

{Dort|adv|there} WERE NO QUEUES OUTSIDE Alicia’s gallery {dies|pron|this} time, as {dort|adv|there} had been {dass|conj|that} day, six years ago, when {Ich|pron|i} had gone to see the Alcestis. A different artist was hanging in the window {jetzt|adv|now}, {und|conj|and} despite {sein|pron|his} possible talent, {er|pron|he} lacked Alicia’s notoriety {und|conj|and} subsequent ability to draw in the crowds. As {Ich|pron|i} entered the gallery, {Ich|pron|i} shivered; {es|pron|it} was even colder in {hier|adv|here} than on the street. {Dort|adv|there} was {etwas|pron|something} chilly about the atmosphere as well as the temperature; {es|pron|it} smelled of exposed steel beams {und|conj|and} bare concrete floors. {Es|pron|it} was soulless, {Ich|pron|i} thought. Empty. The gallerist was sitting behind {sein|pron|his} desk. {Er|pron|he} stood up as {Ich|pron|i} approached. Jean-Felix Martin was in {sein|pron|his} early forties, a handsome man with black eyes {und|conj|and} hair, {und|conj|and} a tight T-shirt with a red skull on {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} told him who {Ich|pron|i} was {und|conj|and} why {Ich|pron|i} had come. To {mein|pron|my} surprise, {er|pron|he} seemed perfectly happy to talk about Alicia. {Er|pron|he} spoke with an accent. {Ich|pron|i} asked {wenn|conj|if} {er|pron|he} was French. “Originally—from Paris. {Aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i}’ve been {hier|adv|here} {seit|conj|since|Seit gestern. — Since yesterday.} {Ich|pron|i} was a student—oh, twenty years at least. {Ich|pron|i} think of myself more as British these days.” {Er|pron|he} smiled {und|conj|and} gestured to a back room. “Come in, {wir|pron|we} can have a coffee.” “Thanks.” Jean-Felix led me into an office {dass|conj|that} was essentially a storeroom, crowded with stacks of paintings. “How is Alicia?” {er|pron|he} asked, using a complicated-looking coffee machine. “Is {sie|pron|she} {noch|adv|still|Noch nicht. — Not yet.} {nicht|adv|not} talking?” {Ich|pron|i} shook {mein|pron|my} head. “No.” {Er|pron|he} nodded {und|conj|and} sighed. “{Also|conj|so} sad. Won’t {du|pron|you} sit down? What do {du|pron|you} want to know? {Ich|pron|i}’ll do {mein|pron|my} best to answer truthfully.” Jean-Felix gave me a wry smile, tinged with curiosity. “{Obwohl|conj|although|Obwohl es regnet. — Although it's raining.} {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} entirely sure why {du|pron|you}’ve come to me.” “{Du|pron|you} {und|conj|and} Alicia were close, weren’t {du|pron|you}? Apart from {dein|pron|your} professional relationship—” “Who told {du|pron|you} {dass|conj|that}?” “Gabriel’s brother, Max Berenson. {Er|pron|he} suggested {Ich|pron|i} talk to {du|pron|you}.”

Jean-Felix rolled {sein|pron|his} eyes. “Oh, {also|conj|so} {du|pron|you} saw Max, did {du|pron|you}? What a bore.” {Er|pron|he} said {es|pron|it} with such contempt {Ich|pron|i} couldn’t help laughing. “{Du|pron|you} know Max Berenson?” “Well {genug|adv|enough|Genug für heute. — Enough for today.}. Better than {Ich|pron|i}’d like.” {Er|pron|he} handed me a {klein|adj|small|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} cup of coffee. “Alicia {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} were close. {Sehr|adv|very|Sehr gut. — Very good.} close. {Wir|pron|we} knew each other for years—long before {sie|pron|she} met Gabriel.” “{Ich|pron|i} didn’t realize {dass|conj|that}.” “Oh, yes. {Wir|pron|we} were at art school {zusammen|adv|together|Wir sind zusammen. — We are together.}. {Und|conj|and} after {wir|pron|we} graduated, {wir|pron|we} painted {zusammen|adv|together|Wir sind zusammen. — We are together.}.” “{Du|pron|you} mean {du|pron|you} collaborated?” “Well, {nicht|adv|not} {wirklich|adv|really|Wirklich wahr. — Really true.}.” Jean-Felix laughed. “{Ich|pron|i} mean {wir|pron|we} painted walls {zusammen|adv|together|Wir sind zusammen. — We are together.}. As housepainters.” {Ich|pron|i} smiled. “Oh, {Ich|pron|i} see.” “{Es|pron|it} turned out {Ich|pron|i} was better at painting walls than paintings. {Also|conj|so} {Ich|pron|i} gave up, about the same time as Alicia’s art started to {wirklich|adv|really|Wirklich wahr. — Really true.} take off. {Und|conj|and} when {Ich|pron|i} started running {dies|pron|this} place, {es|pron|it} made sense for me to show Alicia’s work. {Es|pron|it} was a {sehr|adv|very|Sehr gut. — Very good.} natural, organic process.” “Yes, {es|pron|it} sounds like {es|pron|it}. {Und|conj|and} what about Gabriel?” “What about him?” {Ich|pron|i} sensed a prickliness {hier|adv|here}, a defensive reaction {dass|conj|that} told me {dies|pron|this} was an avenue worth exploring. “Well, {Ich|pron|i} wonder how {er|pron|he} fit into {dies|pron|this} dynamic. Presumably {du|pron|you} knew him quite well?” “{Nicht|adv|not} {wirklich|adv|really|Wirklich wahr. — Really true.}.” “No?” “No.” Jean-Felix hesitated a second. “Gabriel didn’t take time to know me. {Er|pron|he} was {sehr|adv|very|Sehr gut. — Very good.} … caught up in himself.” “Sounds like {du|pron|you} didn’t like him.” “{Ich|pron|i} didn’t particularly. {Ich|pron|i} don’t think {er|pron|he} liked me. In fact, {Ich|pron|i} know {er|pron|he} didn’t.” “Why was {dass|conj|that}?” “{Ich|pron|i} have no idea.” “Do {du|pron|you} think perhaps {er|pron|he} was jealous? Of {dein|pron|your} relationship with Alicia?”

Jean-Felix sipped {sein|pron|his} coffee {und|conj|and} nodded. “Yeah, yes. Possibly.” “{Er|pron|he} saw {du|pron|you} as a threat, perhaps?” “{Du|pron|you} tell me. Sounds like {du|pron|you} have all the answers.” {Ich|pron|i} took the hint. {Ich|pron|i} didn’t push {es|pron|it} any further. Instead {Ich|pron|i} tried a different approach. “{Du|pron|you} saw Alicia a few days before the murder, {Ich|pron|i} believe?” “Yes. {Ich|pron|i} went to the house to see her.” “Can {du|pron|you} tell me a little about {dass|conj|that}?” “Well, {sie|pron|she} had an exhibition coming up, {und|conj|and} {sie|pron|she} was behind with her work. {Sie|pron|she} was rightfully concerned.” “{Du|pron|you} hadn’t seen any of the {neu|adj|new|Ein neues Buch. — A new book.} work?” “No. {Sie|pron|she}’d been putting me off for ages. {Ich|pron|i} thought {Ich|pron|i}’d better check on her. {Ich|pron|i} expected {sie|pron|she}’d be in the studio at the end of the garden. {Aber|conj|but} {sie|pron|she} wasn’t.” “No?” “No, {Ich|pron|i} found her in the house.” “How did {du|pron|you} get in?” Jean-Felix looked surprised by the question. “What?” {Ich|pron|i} could tell {er|pron|he} was making some quick mental evaluation. {Dann|adv|then} {er|pron|he} nodded. “Oh, {Ich|pron|i} see what {du|pron|you} mean. Well, {dort|adv|there} was a gate {dass|conj|that} led from the street to the back garden. {Es|pron|it} was usually unlocked. {Und|conj|and} from the garden {Ich|pron|i} went into the kitchen through the back door. Which was {auch|adv|also|Ich auch. — Me too.} unlocked.” {Er|pron|he} smiled. “{Du|pron|you} know, {du|pron|you} sound more like a detective than a psychiatrist.” “{Ich|pron|i}’m a psychotherapist.” “Is {dort|adv|there} a difference?” “{Ich|pron|i}’m just trying to understand Alicia’s mental state. How did {du|pron|you} experience her mood?” Jean-Felix shrugged. “{Sie|pron|she} seemed fine. A little stressed about work.” “Is {dass|conj|that} all?” “{Sie|pron|she} didn’t look like {sie|pron|she} was going to shoot her husband in a few days, {wenn|conj|if} {dass|conj|that}’s what {du|pron|you} mean. {Sie|pron|she} seemed—fine.” {Er|pron|he} drained {sein|pron|his} coffee {und|conj|and} hesitated as a thought struck him. “Would {du|pron|you} like to see some of her paintings?” Without waiting for a reply, Jean-Felix got up {und|conj|and} walked to the door,

beckoning me to follow. “Come on.”

---

## New Words This Chapter

| English | German | Type |
|---------|--------|------|
| new | neu | adj |
| small | klein | adj |
