# Chapter 6

---

“JEAN-FELIX?” No one was at the reception desk, {und|conj|and} no one came when {Ich|pron|i} called. {Ich|pron|i} hesitated for a moment, {dann|adv|then} went into the gallery. {Ich|pron|i} walked along the corridor to where the Alcestis was hanging. Once {wieder|adv|again}, {Ich|pron|i} looked at the painting. Once {wieder|adv|again}, {Ich|pron|i} tried to read {es|pron|it}, {und|conj|and} {wieder|adv|again} {Ich|pron|i} failed. {Etwas|pron|something} about the picture defied interpretation—{oder|conj|or} else {es|pron|it} had some kind of meaning {dass|conj|that} {Ich|pron|i} had yet to comprehend. {Aber|conj|but} what? {Dann|adv|then}—a sharp intake of breath as {Ich|pron|i} noticed {etwas|pron|something}. Behind Alicia, in the darkness, {wenn|conj|if} {du|pron|you} squinted {und|conj|and} looked hard at the painting, the darkest parts of the shadows came {zusammen|adv|together|Wir sind zusammen. — We are together.}—like a hologram {dass|conj|that} goes from two dimensions to three when {du|pron|you} look at {es|pron|it} from a certain angle—{und|conj|and} a shape burst forth from the shadows … the figure of a man. A man—hiding in the {dunkel|adj|dark|Es war dunkel. — It was dark.}. Watching. Spying on Alicia. “What do {du|pron|you} want?” The voice made me jump. {Ich|pron|i} turned around. Jean-Felix didn’t look particularly pleased to {sehen|verb|see} me. “What are {du|pron|you} doing {hier|adv|here}?” {Ich|pron|i} was about to point out the figure of the man in the painting {und|conj|and} ask Jean-Felix about {es|pron|it}, {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} {etwas|pron|something} told me {es|pron|it} might be a {schlecht|adj|bad|Nicht schlecht. — Not bad.} idea. Instead {Ich|pron|i} smiled. “{Ich|pron|i} just had a couple more questions. Is {jetzt|adv|now} a {gut|adj|good} time?” “{Nicht|adv|not} {wirklich|adv|really}. {Ich|pron|i}’ve told {du|pron|you} everything {Ich|pron|i} {wissen|verb|know}. Surely {dort|adv|there} can’t be anything else?” “Actually, some {neu|adj|new|Ein neues Buch. — A new book.} information has {kommen|verb|come|Sie kommen morgen. — They come tomorrow.} up.” “{Und|conj|and} what is {dass|conj|that}?” “Well, for one thing, {Ich|pron|i} didn’t {wissen|verb|know} Alicia was planning on leaving {dein|pron|your} gallery.” {Dort|adv|there} was a second’s pause before Jean-Felix answered. {Sein|pron|his} voice sounded tight, like a rubber band about to snap. “What are {du|pron|you} talking about?”

“Is {es|pron|it} {wahr|adj|true|Das ist wahr. — That is true.}?” “What business is {es|pron|it} of yours?” “Alicia is {mein|pron|my} patient. {Es|pron|it}’s {mein|pron|my} intention to get her talking {wieder|adv|again}—{aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} {sehen|verb|see} {jetzt|adv|now} {es|pron|it} might be in {dein|pron|your} interest {wenn|conj|if} {sie|pron|she} remains silent.” “What the hell is {dass|conj|that} supposed to mean?” “Well, as long as no one knows of her wish to leave, {du|pron|you} can hold on to her artwork indefinitely.” “What exactly are {du|pron|you} accusing me of?” “{Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} accusing {du|pron|you} at all. Merely stating a fact.” Jean-Felix laughed. “{Wir|pron|we}’ll {sehen|verb|see} about {dass|conj|that}. {Ich|pron|i}’ll be contacting {mein|pron|my} lawyer—{und|conj|and} making a formal complaint to the hospital.” “{Ich|pron|i} don’t think {du|pron|you} will.” “{Und|conj|and} why is {dass|conj|that}?” “Well, {du|pron|you} {sehen|verb|see}, {Ich|pron|i} haven’t told {du|pron|you} how {Ich|pron|i} heard Alicia was planning to leave.” “Whoever told {du|pron|you} was lying.” “{Es|pron|it} was Alicia.” “What?” Jean-Felix looked stunned. “{Du|pron|you} mean … {sie|pron|she} spoke?” “In a way. {Sie|pron|she} gave me her diary to read.” “Her—diary?” {Er|pron|he} blinked a few times, as {wenn|conj|if} {er|pron|he} was having trouble processing the information. “{Ich|pron|i} didn’t {wissen|verb|know} Alicia kept a diary.” “Well, {sie|pron|she} did. {Sie|pron|she} describes {dein|pron|your} last few meetings in some detail.” {Ich|pron|i} didn’t {sagen|verb|say|Was sagst du? — What do you say?} anything else. {Ich|pron|i} didn’t {brauchen|verb|need|Ich brauche Zeit. — I need time.} to. {Dort|adv|there} was a {schwer|adj|heavy|Die Tasche ist schwer. — The bag is heavy.} pause. Jean-Felix was silent. “{Ich|pron|i}’ll be in touch,” {Ich|pron|i} said. {Ich|pron|i} smiled {und|conj|and} walked out. As {Ich|pron|i} emerged onto the Soho street, {Ich|pron|i} felt a little guilty for ruffling Jean-Felix’s feathers like {dass|conj|that}. {Aber|conj|but} {es|pron|it} had been intentional—{Ich|pron|i} wanted to {sehen|verb|see} what effect the provocation would have, how {er|pron|he}’d react, what {er|pron|he} would do. {Jetzt|adv|now} {Ich|pron|i} had to wait {und|conj|and} {sehen|verb|see}. * * *

As {Ich|pron|i} walked through Soho, {Ich|pron|i} phoned Alicia’s cousin, Paul Rose, to let him {wissen|verb|know} {Ich|pron|i} was coming. {Ich|pron|i} didn’t want to turn up at the house unannounced {und|conj|and} risk a similar reception to last time. The bruise on {mein|pron|my} head {noch|adv|still} hadn’t fully healed. {Ich|pron|i} cradled the phone between {mein|pron|my} ear {und|conj|and} {mein|pron|my} shoulder as {Ich|pron|i} lit a cigarette. {Ich|pron|i} barely had time to inhale before the phone was answered, on the first ring. {Ich|pron|i} hoped {es|pron|it} would be Paul, {nicht|adv|not} Lydia. {Ich|pron|i} was in luck. “Hello?” “Paul. {Es|pron|it}’s Theo Faber.” “Oh. Hello, mate. Sorry {Ich|pron|i}’m whispering. Mum’s having her nap, {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} don’t want to disturb her. How’s {dein|pron|your} head?” “Much better, thanks.” “{Gut|adj|good}, {gut|adj|good}. How can {Ich|pron|i} help?” “Well, {Ich|pron|i}’ve received some {neu|adj|new|Ein neues Buch. — A new book.} information about Alicia. {Ich|pron|i} wanted to talk to {du|pron|you} about {es|pron|it}.” “What kind of information?” {Ich|pron|i} told him {dass|conj|that} Alicia had given me her diary to read. “Her diary? {Ich|pron|i} didn’t {wissen|verb|know} {sie|pron|she} kept one. What does {es|pron|it} {sagen|verb|say|Was sagst du? — What do you say?}?” “{Es|pron|it} might be easier to talk in person. Are {du|pron|you} {frei|adj|free|Der Platz ist frei. — The seat is free.} {heute|adv|today|Heute ist ein guter Tag. — Today is a good day.} at all?” Paul hesitated. “{Es|pron|it} might be better {wenn|conj|if} {du|pron|you} don’t {kommen|verb|come|Sie kommen morgen. — They come tomorrow.} to the house. Mother isn’t … well, {sie|pron|she} wasn’t too {glücklich|adj|happy|Ich bin glücklich. — I am happy.} about {dein|pron|your} last visit.” “Yes, {Ich|pron|i} gathered {dass|conj|that}.” “{Dort|adv|there}’s a pub at the end of the road, by the roundabout. The White Bear —” “Yes, {Ich|pron|i} remember {es|pron|it}. {Dass|conj|that} sounds fine. What time?” “Around five? {Ich|pron|i} should be able to get away {dann|adv|then} for a bit.” {Ich|pron|i} heard Lydia shouting in the background. Evidently {sie|pron|she} had woken up. “{Ich|pron|i} have to {gehen|verb|go}. {Ich|pron|i}’ll {sehen|verb|see} {du|pron|you} later.” Paul hung up. * * * A few hours later, {Ich|pron|i} was on {mein|pron|my} way back to Cambridge. On the train, {Ich|pron|i} made another phone call—to Max Berenson. {Ich|pron|i} hesitated before calling. {Er|pron|he}’d

{schon|adv|already|Schon wieder. — Already again.} complained to Diomedes once, {also|conj|so} {er|pron|he} wouldn’t be pleased to hear from me {wieder|adv|again}. {Aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} knew {Ich|pron|i} had no choice. Tanya answered. Her {kalt|adj|cold|Es ist kalt. — It is cold.} sounded better, {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} could hear the tension in her voice when {sie|pron|she} realized who {Ich|pron|i} was. “{Ich|pron|i} don’t think—{Ich|pron|i} mean, Max is busy. {Er|pron|he}’s in meetings all day.” “{Ich|pron|i}’ll call back.” “{Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} sure {dass|conj|that}’s a {gut|adj|good} idea. {Ich|pron|i}—” {Ich|pron|i} could hear Max in the background saying {etwas|pron|something}, {und|conj|and} Tanya’s reply: “{Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} saying {dass|conj|that}, Max.” Max grabbed the phone {und|conj|and} spoke to me directly: “{Ich|pron|i} just told Tanya to tell {du|pron|you} to fuck off.” “Ah.” “{Du|pron|you}’ve got a nerve calling {hier|adv|here} {wieder|adv|again}. {Ich|pron|i} {schon|adv|already|Schon wieder. — Already again.} complained once to Professor Diomedes.” “Yes, {Ich|pron|i}’m aware of {dass|conj|that}. Nonetheless some {neu|adj|new|Ein neues Buch. — A new book.} information has {kommen|verb|come|Sie kommen morgen. — They come tomorrow.} to {leicht|adj|light|Die Tasche ist leicht. — The bag is light.}, {und|conj|and} {es|pron|it} concerns {du|pron|you} directly—{also|conj|so} {Ich|pron|i} felt {Ich|pron|i} had no choice {aber|conj|but} to get in touch.” “What information?” “{Es|pron|it}’s a journal Alicia kept in the weeks leading up to the murder.” {Dort|adv|there} was silence at the other end of the line. {Ich|pron|i} hesitated. “Alicia writes about {du|pron|you} in some detail, Max. {Sie|pron|she} said {du|pron|you} had romantic feelings for her. {Ich|pron|i} was wondering {wenn|conj|if}—” {Dort|adv|there} was a click as {er|pron|he} hung up. {Also|conj|so} {weit|adj|far|Der Laden ist weit. — The shop is far.} {also|conj|so} {gut|adj|good}. Max had taken the bait—{und|conj|and} {jetzt|adv|now} {Ich|pron|i} had to wait to {sehen|verb|see} how {er|pron|he}’d react. {Ich|pron|i} realized {Ich|pron|i} was a little {ängstlich|adj|afraid|Sie war ängstlich. — She was afraid.} of Max Berenson, just as Tanya was {ängstlich|adj|afraid|Sie war ängstlich. — She was afraid.} of him. {Ich|pron|i} remembered her whispered advice to me, to talk to Paul, to ask him {etwas|pron|something}—what? {Etwas|pron|something} about the night after the accident {dass|conj|that} killed Alicia’s mother. {Ich|pron|i} remembered the look on Tanya’s face when Max had appeared, how {sie|pron|she} fell silent {und|conj|and} presented him with a smile. No, {Ich|pron|i} thought, Max Berenson was {nicht|adv|not} to be underestimated. {Dass|conj|that} would be a {gefährlich|adj|dangerous|Das ist gefährlich. — That is dangerous.} mistake.

---

## New Words This Chapter

| English | German | Type |
|---------|--------|------|
| dangerous | gefährlich | adj |
| dark | dunkel | adj |
