# Chapter 5

---

KATHY WAS GETTING CARELESS. {Es|pron|it} was inevitable, {Ich|pron|i} suppose. Having gotten away with her infidelity for {also|conj|so} long, {sie|pron|she} started getting lazy. {Ich|pron|i} returned home to {finden|verb|find|Ich finde es. — I find it.} her about to {gehen|verb|go} out. “{Ich|pron|i}’m going for a walk,” {sie|pron|she} said, pulling on her trainers. “{Ich|pron|i} won’t be long.” “{Ich|pron|i} could use some exercise. Fancy some company?” “No, {Ich|pron|i} {brauchen|verb|need|Ich brauche Zeit. — I need time.} to practice {mein|pron|my} lines.” “{Ich|pron|i} can test {du|pron|you} on them {wenn|conj|if} {du|pron|you} like.” “No.” Kathy shook her head. “{Es|pron|it}’s easier on {mein|pron|my} own. {Ich|pron|i} just keep reciting the speeches—the ones {Ich|pron|i} can’t get {mein|pron|my} head around, {du|pron|you} {wissen|verb|know}, the ones in act two. {Ich|pron|i} walk around the park, repeating them aloud. {Du|pron|you} should {sehen|verb|see} the looks {Ich|pron|i} get.” {Ich|pron|i} had to {geben|verb|give|Gib mir das. — Give me that.} {es|pron|it} to her. Kathy said all of {dies|pron|this} with perfect sincerity, {während|conj|while} maintaining constant eye contact. {Sie|pron|she} was a remarkable actress. {Mein|pron|my} acting was {auch|adv|also|Ich auch. — Me too.} improving. {Ich|pron|i} gave her a {warm|adj|warm|Es ist warm. — It is warm.}, open smile. “Have a nice walk.” {Ich|pron|i} followed her after {sie|pron|she} left the flat. {Ich|pron|i} kept a careful distance, {aber|conj|but} {sie|pron|she} didn’t even look back once. As {Ich|pron|i} said, {sie|pron|she} was getting careless. {Sie|pron|she} walked for about five minutes, to the entrance of the park. As {sie|pron|she} neared {es|pron|it}, a man emerged from the shadows. {Er|pron|he} had {sein|pron|his} back to me {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} couldn’t {sehen|verb|see} {sein|pron|his} face. {Er|pron|he} had dark hair {und|conj|and} was well built, taller than me. {Sie|pron|she} went up to him {und|conj|and} {er|pron|he} pulled her close. {Sie|pron|they} started kissing. Kathy devoured {sein|pron|his} kisses hungrily, surrendering herself to him. {Es|pron|it} was strange—to {sagen|verb|say|Was sagst du? — What do you say?} the least—to {sehen|verb|see} another man’s arms around her. {Sein|pron|his} hands groped {und|conj|and} fondled her breasts through her clothes. {Ich|pron|i} knew {Ich|pron|i} should hide. {Ich|pron|i} was exposed {und|conj|and} in plain sight—{wenn|conj|if} Kathy turned around, {sie|pron|she}’d be sure to {sehen|verb|see} me. {Aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} couldn’t move. {Ich|pron|i} was transfixed, staring at a Medusa, turned to stone. Eventually {sie|pron|they} stopped kissing {und|conj|and} walked into the park, arm in arm. {Ich|pron|i} followed. {Es|pron|it} was disorienting. From behind, from a distance, the man didn’t look dissimilar to me—for a few seconds {Ich|pron|i} had a confused, out-of-body

experience, convinced {Ich|pron|i} was watching myself walking in the park with Kathy. Kathy led the man toward a wooded area. {Er|pron|he} followed her into {es|pron|it} {und|conj|and} {sie|pron|they} vanished. {Ich|pron|i} felt a sick feeling of dread in {mein|pron|my} stomach. {Mein|pron|my} breathing was thick, {langsam|adj|slow|Ein langsamer Zug. — A slow train.}, {schwer|adj|heavy|Die Tasche ist schwer. — The bag is heavy.}. Every part of {mein|pron|my} body was telling me to leave, {gehen|verb|go}, run, run away. {Aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} didn’t. {Ich|pron|i} followed them into the woods. {Ich|pron|i} tried to make as little noise as possible, {aber|conj|but} twigs crunched under {mein|pron|my} feet, {und|conj|and} branches clawed at me. {Ich|pron|i} couldn’t {sehen|verb|see} them anywhere—the trees grew {also|conj|so} closely {zusammen|adv|together|Wir sind zusammen. — We are together.} {dass|conj|that} {Ich|pron|i} could {nur|adv|only} {sehen|verb|see} a few feet in front of me. {Ich|pron|i} stopped {und|conj|and} listened. {Ich|pron|i} heard a rustling in the trees, {aber|conj|but} {es|pron|it} could have been the wind. {Dann|adv|then} {Ich|pron|i} heard {etwas|pron|something} unmistakable, a low-pitched guttural sound {Ich|pron|i} recognized at once. {Es|pron|it} was Kathy moaning. {Ich|pron|i} tried to get closer, {aber|conj|but} the branches caught me {und|conj|and} held me suspended, like a fly in a web. {Ich|pron|i} stood {dort|adv|there} in the dim {leicht|adj|light|Die Tasche ist leicht. — The bag is light.}, breathing in the musty smell of bark {und|conj|and} earth. {Ich|pron|i} listened to Kathy moaning as {er|pron|he} fucked her. {Er|pron|he} grunted like an animal. {Ich|pron|i} burned with hate. {Dies|pron|this} man had {kommen|verb|come|Sie kommen morgen. — They come tomorrow.} from nowhere {und|conj|and} invaded {mein|pron|my} life. {Er|pron|he} had stolen {und|conj|and} seduced {und|conj|and} corrupted the one thing in the world {dass|conj|that} was precious to me. {Es|pron|it} was monstrous—supernatural. Perhaps {er|pron|he} wasn’t human at all, {aber|conj|but} the instrument of some malevolent deity intent on punishing me. Was God punishing me? Why? What was {Ich|pron|i} guilty of—except falling in love? Was {es|pron|it} {dass|conj|that} {Ich|pron|i} loved too deeply, too needily? Too much? Did {dies|pron|this} man love her? {Ich|pron|i} doubted {es|pron|it}. {Nicht|adv|not} the way {Ich|pron|i} did. {Er|pron|he} was just using her; using her body. {Dort|adv|there} was no way {er|pron|he} cared for her as {Ich|pron|i} did. {Ich|pron|i} would have died for Kathy. {Ich|pron|i} would have killed for her. {Ich|pron|i} thought of {mein|pron|my} father—{Ich|pron|i} knew what {er|pron|he}’d do in {dies|pron|this} situation. {Er|pron|he}’d murder the guy. Be a man, {Ich|pron|i} could hear {mein|pron|my} father shouting. Toughen up. Was {dass|conj|that} what {Ich|pron|i} should do? Kill him? Dispose of him? {Es|pron|it} was a way out of {dies|pron|this} mess—a way to break the spell, release Kathy {und|conj|and} set us {frei|adj|free|Der Platz ist frei. — The seat is free.}. Once {sie|pron|she} had grieved {sein|pron|his} loss, {es|pron|it} would be over, {er|pron|he}’d just be a memory, easily forgotten, {und|conj|and} {wir|pron|we} could {gehen|verb|go} on as before. {Ich|pron|i} could do {es|pron|it} {jetzt|adv|now}, {hier|adv|here}, in the park. {Ich|pron|i}’d drag him into the pond, plunge {sein|pron|his} head underwater. {Ich|pron|i}’d hold {es|pron|it} {dort|adv|there} until {sein|pron|his} body

convulsed {und|conj|and} went limp in {mein|pron|my} arms. {Oder|conj|or} {Ich|pron|i} could follow him home on the tube, stand {richtig|adj|right} behind him on the platform, {und|conj|and}—with a sharp shove—push him in the path of an oncoming train. {Oder|conj|or} creep up behind him on a deserted street, clutching a brick, {und|conj|and} bash out {sein|pron|his} brains. Why {nicht|adv|not}? Kathy’s moans grew louder {plötzlich|adv|suddenly|Plötzlich war es still. — Suddenly it was quiet.}, {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} recognized the groans {sie|pron|she} made as {sie|pron|she} climaxed. {Dann|adv|then} {dort|adv|there} was a silence … interrupted by a muffled giggle {Ich|pron|i} knew {also|conj|so} well. {Ich|pron|i} could hear the snapping of twigs as {sie|pron|they} tramped out of the woods. {Ich|pron|i} waited for a few moments. {Dann|adv|then} {Ich|pron|i} snapped the branches around me {und|conj|and} fought {mein|pron|my} way out of the trees, tearing {und|conj|and} scratching {mein|pron|my} hands to shreds. When {Ich|pron|i} emerged from the wood, {mein|pron|my} eyes were half-blind with tears. {Ich|pron|i} wiped them away with a bleeding fist. {Ich|pron|i} lurched off, going nowhere. {Ich|pron|i} walked round {und|conj|and} round like a madman.

---

## New Words This Chapter

| English | German | Type |
|---------|--------|------|
| slow | langsam | adj |
| warm | warm | adj |
