# Chapter 32

---

“HOW IS ELIF?” {Ich|pron|i} was waiting in the goldfish bowl {und|conj|and} caught Yuri once {er|pron|he} returned from the emergency ward. “Stable.” {Er|pron|he} sighed heavily. “Which is about the best {wir|pron|we} can hope for.” “{Ich|pron|i}’d like to {sehen|verb|see} her.” “Elif? {Oder|conj|or} Alicia?” “Elif first.” Yuri nodded. “{Sie|pron|they} want her to rest tonight, {aber|conj|but} in the morning {Ich|pron|i}’ll take {du|pron|you} to her.” “What happened? Were {du|pron|you} {dort|adv|there}? {Ich|pron|i} presume Alicia was provoked?” Yuri sighed {wieder|adv|again} {und|conj|and} shrugged. “{Ich|pron|i} don’t know. Elif was hanging around outside Alicia’s studio. {Dort|adv|there} must have been a confrontation of some kind. {Ich|pron|i}’ve no idea what {sie|pron|they} were fighting about.” “Have {du|pron|you} got the key? Let’s {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} {und|conj|and} have a look. {Sehen|verb|see} {wenn|conj|if} {wir|pron|we} can find any clues.” {Wir|pron|we} left the goldfish bowl {und|conj|and} walked to Alicia’s studio. Yuri unlocked the door {und|conj|and} opened {es|pron|it}. {Er|pron|he} flicked on the {leicht|adj|light|Die Tasche ist leicht. — The bag is light.}. {Und|conj|and} {dort|adv|there}, on the easel, was the answer {wir|pron|we} were looking for. Alicia’s painting—the picture of the Grove going up in flames—had been defaced. The word SLUT was crudely daubed across {es|pron|it} in red paint. {Ich|pron|i} nodded. “Well, {dass|conj|that} explains {es|pron|it}.” “{Du|pron|you} think Elif did {es|pron|it}?” “Who else?” * * * {Ich|pron|i} found Elif in the emergency ward. {Sie|pron|she} was propped up in bed, attached to a drip. Padded bandages were wrapped around her head, covering one eye. {Sie|pron|she} was upset, {wütend|adj|angry|Er war wütend. — He was angry.}, {und|conj|and} in pain. “Fuck off,” {sie|pron|she} said when {sie|pron|she} saw me. {Ich|pron|i} pulled up a chair by the bed {und|conj|and} sat down. {Ich|pron|i} spoke gently, respectfully. “{Ich|pron|i}’m sorry, Elif. Truly sorry. {Dies|pron|this} is an awful thing to happen. A tragedy.”

“Too fucking {richtig|adj|right}. {Jetzt|adv|now}, piss off {und|conj|and} leave me {allein|adv|alone|Er ist allein. — He is alone.}.” “Tell me what happened.” “{Dass|conj|that} bitch took out {mein|pron|my} fucking eye. {Dass|conj|that}’s what happened.” “Why did {sie|pron|she} do {dass|conj|that}? Did {du|pron|you} have a fight?” “{Du|pron|you} trying to blame me? {Ich|pron|i} didn’t do {nichts|pron|nothing}!” “{Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} trying to blame {du|pron|you}. {Ich|pron|i} just want to understand why {sie|pron|she} did {es|pron|it}.” “’Cause {sie|pron|she}’s got a fucking screw loose, {dass|conj|that}’s why.” “{Es|pron|it} had {nichts|pron|nothing} to do with the painting? {Ich|pron|i} saw what {du|pron|you} did. {Du|pron|you} defaced {es|pron|it}, didn’t {du|pron|you}?” Elif narrowed her remaining eye, {dann|adv|then} firmly closed {es|pron|it}. “{Dass|conj|that} was a {schlecht|adj|bad|Nicht schlecht. — Not bad.} thing to do, Elif. {Es|pron|it} doesn’t justify her response, {aber|conj|but} {noch|adv|still|Noch nicht. — Not yet.} —” “{Dass|conj|that} ain’t why {sie|pron|she} did {es|pron|it}.” Elif opened her eye {und|conj|and} stared at me scornfully. {Ich|pron|i} hesitated. “No? {Dann|adv|then} why did {sie|pron|she} attack {du|pron|you}?” Elif’s lips twisted into a kind of smile. {Sie|pron|she} didn’t speak. {Wir|pron|we} sat like {dass|conj|that} for a few moments. {Ich|pron|i} was about to {geben|verb|give|Gib mir das. — Give me that.} up, {dann|adv|then} {sie|pron|she} spoke. “{Ich|pron|i} told her the truth.” “What truth?” “{Dass|conj|that} {du|pron|you}’re soft on her.” {Ich|pron|i} was startled by {dies|pron|this}. Before {Ich|pron|i} could respond, Elif went on, speaking with {kalt|adj|cold|Es ist kalt. — It is cold.} contempt. “{Du|pron|you}’re in love with her, mate. {Ich|pron|i} told her {also|conj|so}. ‘{Er|pron|he} loves {du|pron|you},’ {Ich|pron|i} said. ‘{Er|pron|he} loves {du|pron|you}—Theo {und|conj|and} Alicia sitting in a tree. Theo {und|conj|and} Alicia K {Ich|pron|i} S S {Ich|pron|i} N G—’” Elif started laughing, a horrible shrieking laugh. {Ich|pron|i} could picture the rest—Alicia goaded into a frenzy, spinning round, raising her paintbrush … {und|conj|and} plunging {es|pron|it} into Elif’s eye. “{Sie|pron|she}’s a fucking nutter.” Elif sounded close to tears, anguished, exhausted. “{Sie|pron|she}’s a psycho.” Looking at Elif’s bandaged wound, {Ich|pron|i} couldn’t help {aber|conj|but} wonder {wenn|conj|if} {sie|pron|she} was {richtig|adj|right}.

---

## New Words This Chapter

| English | German | Type |
|---------|--------|------|
| angry | wütend | adj |
| go | gehen | verb |
