# Chapter 19

---

FROM {Dann|adv|then} ON THINGS MOVED {Schnell|adj|fast|Ein schnelles Auto. — A fast car.}. Police officers swarmed all over the Grove, asking questions, taking photographs, sealing off Alicia’s studio {und|conj|and} her room. The investigation was led by Chief Inspector Steven Allen, heavyset, bald, with large reading glasses {dass|conj|that} distorted {sein|pron|his} eyes, magnifying them, making them seem bigger than life, bulging with interest {und|conj|and} curiosity. Allen listened with careful interest to {mein|pron|my} story; {Ich|pron|i} told him everything {Ich|pron|i} had said to Diomedes, {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} showed him {mein|pron|my} supervision notes. “Thank {du|pron|you} {sehr|adv|very} much indeed, Mr. Faber.” “Call me Theo.” “{Ich|pron|i}’d {mögen|verb|like|Ich mag das. — I like that.} {du|pron|you} to make an official statement, please. {Und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i}’ll be talking to {du|pron|you} more in due course.” “Yes, certainly.” Inspector Allen had commandeered Diomedes’s office. {Er|pron|he} showed me out. After {Ich|pron|i} made {mein|pron|my} statement to a junior officer, {Ich|pron|i} hung around in the corridor, waiting. Soon {genug|adv|enough}, Christian was led to the {Tür|fem|door|Die Tür ist offen. — The door is open.} by a police officer. {Er|pron|he} looked uneasy, scared—{und|conj|and} guilty. {Ich|pron|i} felt satisfied {er|pron|he} would soon be charged. {Dort|adv|there} was {nichts|pron|nothing} else to do {jetzt|adv|now}, except {warten|verb|wait|Wir warten hier. — We wait here.}. On {mein|pron|my} way out of the Grove, {Ich|pron|i} passed the goldfish bowl. {Ich|pron|i} glanced inside—{und|conj|and} what {Ich|pron|i} saw stopped me in {mein|pron|my} tracks. Elif was being slipped some drugs by Yuri, {und|conj|and} {er|pron|he} was pocketing some cash. Elif charged out {und|conj|and} fixed me with her one eye. A {schauen|verb|look|Schau mal. — Look at that.} of contempt {und|conj|and} hatred. “Elif,” {Ich|pron|i} said. “Fuck off.” {Sie|pron|she} marched off, disappearing around the corner. Yuri emerged from the goldfish bowl. As soon as {er|pron|he} saw me, {sein|pron|his} jaw dropped. {Er|pron|he} stuttered with surprise. “{Ich|pron|i}—{Ich|pron|i} didn’t {sehen|verb|see} {du|pron|you} {dort|adv|there}.” “Obviously {nicht|adv|not}.”

“Elif—forgot her medication. {Ich|pron|i} was just giving {es|pron|it} to her.” “{Ich|pron|i} {sehen|verb|see}.” {Also|conj|so} Yuri was dealing {und|conj|and} supplying Elif. {Ich|pron|i} wondered what else {er|pron|he} was up to—perhaps {Ich|pron|i} had been a little too hasty to defend him {also|conj|so} determinedly to Stephanie. {Ich|pron|i}’d better keep an eye on him. “{Ich|pron|i} wanted to {fragen|verb|ask|Darf ich fragen? — May I ask?} {du|pron|you},” {er|pron|he} said, leading me away from the goldfish bowl. “What {sollen|verb|should|Ich soll bleiben. — I should stay.} {wir|pron|we} do about Mr. Martin?” “What do {du|pron|you} mean?” {Ich|pron|i} looked at him, surprised. “{Du|pron|you} mean Jean-Felix Martin? What about him?” “Well, {er|pron|he}’s been {hier|adv|here} for hours. {Er|pron|he} came {dies|pron|this} morning to visit Alicia. {Und|conj|and} {er|pron|he}’s been waiting {seit|conj|since|Seit gestern. — Since yesterday.} {dann|adv|then}.” “What? Why didn’t {du|pron|you} tell me? {Du|pron|you} mean {er|pron|he}’s been {hier|adv|here} all {dies|pron|this} {Zeit|fem|time|Wir haben Zeit. — We have time.}?” “Sorry, {es|pron|it} slipped {mein|pron|my} mind with everything {dass|conj|that} happened. {Er|pron|he}’s in the waiting room.” “{Ich|pron|i} {sehen|verb|see}. Well, {Ich|pron|i}’d better {gehen|verb|go} {und|conj|and} talk to him.” {Ich|pron|i} hurried downstairs to reception, thinking about what {Ich|pron|i}’d just heard. What was Jean-Felix doing {hier|adv|here}? {Ich|pron|i} wondered what {er|pron|he} wanted; what {es|pron|it} meant. {Ich|pron|i} went into the waiting room {und|conj|and} looked around. {Aber|conj|but} no one was {dort|adv|there}.

---

## New Words This Chapter

| English | German | Type |
|---------|--------|------|
| time | Zeit | fem noun |
| door | Tür | fem noun |
