# Chapter 1

---

Alicia Berenson’s Diary AUGUST 8 {Etwas|pron|something} odd happened {heute|adv|today|Heute ist ein guter Tag. — Today is a good day.}. {Ich|pron|i} was in the kitchen, making coffee, looking out the window—looking without seeing—daydreaming—{und|conj|and} {dann|adv|then} {Ich|pron|i} noticed {etwas|pron|something}, {oder|conj|or} rather {jemand|pron|someone}—outside. A man. {Ich|pron|i} noticed him {weil|conj|because} {er|pron|he} was standing {also|conj|so} {noch|adv|still}—like a statue —{und|conj|and} facing the house. {Er|pron|he} was on the other side of the road, by the entrance to the park. {Er|pron|he} was standing in the shadow of a tree. {Er|pron|he} was {groß|adj|tall|Ein großer Mann. — A tall man.}, well built. {Ich|pron|i} couldn’t make out {sein|pron|his} features, as {er|pron|he} was wearing sunglasses {und|conj|and} a cap. {Ich|pron|i} couldn’t tell {wenn|conj|if} {er|pron|he} could {sehen|verb|see} me {oder|conj|or} {nicht|adv|not}, through the window, {aber|conj|but} {es|pron|it} felt as {wenn|conj|if} {er|pron|he} was staring {richtig|adj|right} at me. {Ich|pron|i} thought {es|pron|it} was weird—{Ich|pron|i}’m used to people waiting across the street at the bus stop, {aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} wasn’t waiting for a bus. {Er|pron|he} was staring at the house. {Ich|pron|i} realized {dass|conj|that} {Ich|pron|i} had been standing {dort|adv|there} for several minutes, {also|conj|so} {Ich|pron|i} made myself leave the window. {Ich|pron|i} went to the studio. {Ich|pron|i} tried to paint {aber|conj|but} couldn’t concentrate. {Mein|pron|my} mind kept going back to the man. {Ich|pron|i} decided to {geben|verb|give|Gib mir das. — Give me that.} myself another twenty minutes, {dann|adv|then} {Ich|pron|i}’d {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} back to the kitchen {und|conj|and} look. {Wenn|conj|if} {er|pron|he} was {noch|adv|still} {dort|adv|there}, {dann|adv|then} what? {Er|pron|he} wasn’t doing anything {falsch|adj|wrong|Das ist falsch. — That is wrong.}. {Er|pron|he} might be a burglar, studying the house—{Ich|pron|i} suppose {dass|conj|that} was {mein|pron|my} first thought—{aber|conj|but} why just stand {dort|adv|there} like {dass|conj|that}, {also|conj|so} conspicuously? {Vielleicht|adv|maybe|Vielleicht morgen. — Maybe tomorrow.} {er|pron|he} was thinking of moving {hier|adv|here}? {Vielleicht|adv|maybe|Vielleicht morgen. — Maybe tomorrow.} {er|pron|he}’s buying the house for sale at the end of the street? {Dass|conj|that} could explain {es|pron|it}. {Aber|conj|but} when {Ich|pron|i} went back to the kitchen {und|conj|and} peered out of the window, {er|pron|he} had gone. The street was {leer|adj|empty|Das Glas ist leer. — The glass is empty.}. {Ich|pron|i} guess {Ich|pron|i}’ll {nie|adv|never} {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} what {er|pron|he} was doing. How strange. AUGUST 10 {Ich|pron|i} went to the play with Jean-Felix last night. Gabriel didn’t want me to, {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} went anyway. {Ich|pron|i} was dreading {es|pron|it}, {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} thought {wenn|conj|if} {Ich|pron|i} gave Jean-Felix what {er|pron|he} wanted {und|conj|and} went with him, {vielleicht|adv|maybe|Vielleicht morgen. — Maybe tomorrow.} {dass|conj|that} would be an end to {dies|pron|this}. {Ich|pron|i} hoped {also|conj|so}, anyway. {Wir|pron|we} arranged to meet {früh|adj|early|Es ist früh. — It is early.}, to have a drink—{sein|pron|his} idea—{und|conj|and} when {Ich|pron|i} got {dort|adv|there}, {es|pron|it} was {noch|adv|still} {leicht|adj|light|Die Tasche ist leicht. — The bag is light.}. The sun was low in the sky, coloring the river bloodred. Jean-Felix was waiting for me outside the National. {Ich|pron|i} saw him before {er|pron|he} saw me.

{Er|pron|he} was scanning the crowds, scowling. {Wenn|conj|if} {Ich|pron|i} had any doubt {Ich|pron|i} was doing the {richtig|adj|right} thing, seeing {sein|pron|his} {wütend|adj|angry|Er war wütend. — He was angry.} face dispelled {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} was filled with a horrible kind of dread—{und|conj|and} nearly turned {und|conj|and} bolted. {Aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} turned {und|conj|and} saw me before {Ich|pron|i} could. {Er|pron|he} waved, {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} went over to him. {Ich|pron|i} pretended to smile, {und|conj|and} {also|conj|so} did {er|pron|he}. “{Ich|pron|i}’m {also|conj|so} glad {du|pron|you} came,” Jean-Felix said. “{Ich|pron|i} was worried {du|pron|you} wouldn’t show up. Shall {wir|pron|we} {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} in {und|conj|and} have a drink?” {Wir|pron|we} had a drink in the foyer. {Es|pron|it} was awkward, to say the least. Neither of us mentioned the other day. {Wir|pron|we} talked a lot about {nichts|pron|nothing}, {oder|conj|or} rather Jean-Felix talked {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} listened. {Wir|pron|we} ended up having a couple of drinks. {Ich|pron|i} hadn’t eaten {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} felt a bit drunk; {Ich|pron|i} think {dass|conj|that} was probably Jean-Felix’s intention. {Er|pron|he} was trying {sein|pron|his} best to engage me, {aber|conj|but} the conversation was stilted—{es|pron|it} was orchestrated, stage-managed. Everything {dass|conj|that} came out of {sein|pron|his} mouth seemed to start with “Wasn’t {es|pron|it} fun when” {oder|conj|or} “Do {du|pron|you} remember {dass|conj|that} time {wir|pron|we}”—as {wenn|conj|if} {er|pron|he}’d rehearsed little reminiscences in the hope {dass|conj|that} {sie|pron|they}’d weaken {mein|pron|my} resolve {und|conj|and} remind me how much history {wir|pron|we} had, how close {wir|pron|we} were. What {er|pron|he} doesn’t seem to realize is {Ich|pron|i}’ve made {mein|pron|my} decision. {Und|conj|and} {nichts|pron|nothing} {er|pron|he} can say {jetzt|adv|now} will change {dass|conj|that}. In the end, {Ich|pron|i}’m glad {Ich|pron|i} went. {Nicht|adv|not} {weil|conj|because} {Ich|pron|i} saw Jean-Felix—{weil|conj|because} {Ich|pron|i} saw the play. Alcestis isn’t a tragedy {Ich|pron|i}’ve heard of—{Ich|pron|i} suppose {es|pron|it}’s obscure {weil|conj|because} {es|pron|it}’s a smaller kind of domestic story, which is why {Ich|pron|i} liked {es|pron|it} {also|conj|so} much. {Es|pron|it} was staged in the present day, in a {klein|adj|small|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} suburban house in Athens. {Ich|pron|i} liked the scale of {es|pron|it}. An intimate kitchen-sink tragedy. A man is condemned to die, {und|conj|and} {sein|pron|his} wife, Alcestis, wants to save him. The actress playing Alcestis looked like a Greek statue, {sie|pron|she} had a wonderful face—{Ich|pron|i} kept thinking about painting her. {Ich|pron|i} thought about getting her details {und|conj|and} contacting her agent. {Ich|pron|i} nearly mentioned {es|pron|it} to Jean-Felix, {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} stopped myself. {Ich|pron|i} don’t want to involve him in {mein|pron|my} life anymore, on any level. {Ich|pron|i} had tears in {mein|pron|my} eyes at the end—Alcestis dies {und|conj|and} is reborn. {Sie|pron|she} literally comes back from the dead. {Dort|adv|there}’s {etwas|pron|something} {dort|adv|there} {dass|conj|that} {Ich|pron|i} need to think about. {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} sure exactly what yet. Of course, Jean-Felix had all kinds of reactions to the play, {aber|conj|but} none of them resonated with me, {also|conj|so} {Ich|pron|i} tuned him out {und|conj|and} stopped listening. {Ich|pron|i} couldn’t get Alcestis’s death {und|conj|and} resurrection out of {mein|pron|my} mind—{Ich|pron|i} kept thinking about {es|pron|it} as {wir|pron|we} walked back across the bridge to the station. Jean-Felix asked {wenn|conj|if} {Ich|pron|i} wanted to have another drink, {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} said {Ich|pron|i} was {müde|adj|tired|Er ist müde. — He is tired.}. {Dort|adv|there} was another awkward pause. {Wir|pron|we} stood outside the entrance to the station. {Ich|pron|i} thanked him for the evening {und|conj|and} said {es|pron|it} had been fun.

“Just have one more drink,” Jean-Felix said. “One more. For {alt|adj|old|Ein altes Haus. — An old house.} times’ sake?” “No, {Ich|pron|i} should {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.}.” {Ich|pron|i} tried to leave—{und|conj|and} {er|pron|he} grabbed {mein|pron|my} hand. “Alicia,” {er|pron|he} said. “Listen to me. {Ich|pron|i} need to tell {du|pron|you} {etwas|pron|something}.” “No, please don’t, {dort|adv|there}’s {nichts|pron|nothing} to say, {wirklich|adv|really|Wirklich wahr. — Really true.}—” “Just listen. {Es|pron|it}’s {nicht|adv|not} what {du|pron|you} think.” {Und|conj|and} {er|pron|he} was {richtig|adj|right}, {es|pron|it} wasn’t. {Ich|pron|i} was expecting Jean-Felix to plead for {unser|pron|our} friendship, {oder|conj|or} try to make me feel guilty for leaving the gallery. {Aber|conj|but} what {er|pron|he} said took me totally by surprise. “{Du|pron|you} need to be careful,” {er|pron|he} said. “{Du|pron|you}’re way too trusting. The people around {du|pron|you} … {du|pron|you} trust them. Don’t. Don’t trust them.” {Ich|pron|i} stared at him blankly. {Es|pron|it} took me a second to speak. “What are {du|pron|you} talking about? Who do {du|pron|you} mean?” Jean-Felix just shook {sein|pron|his} head {und|conj|and} didn’t say anything. {Er|pron|he} let {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} of {mein|pron|my} hand {und|conj|and} walked off. {Ich|pron|i} called after him {aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} didn’t stop. “Jean-Felix. Stop.” {Er|pron|he} didn’t look back. {Ich|pron|i} watched him disappear around the corner. {Ich|pron|i} stood {dort|adv|there}, rooted to the spot. {Ich|pron|i} didn’t {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} what to think. What was {er|pron|he} doing making a mysterious warning {und|conj|and} {dann|adv|then} walking off like {dass|conj|that}? {Ich|pron|i} guess {er|pron|he} wanted to get the upper hand {und|conj|and} leave me feeling unsure {und|conj|and} {falsch|adj|wrong|Das ist falsch. — That is wrong.}-footed. {Und|conj|and} {er|pron|he} succeeded. {Er|pron|he} {auch|adv|also|Ich auch. — Me too.} left me feeling {wütend|adj|angry|Er war wütend. — He was angry.}. {Jetzt|adv|now}, in a way, {er|pron|he}’s made {es|pron|it} {einfach|adj|easy|Das ist einfach. — That is easy.} for me. {Jetzt|adv|now} {Ich|pron|i}’m determined to cut him out of {mein|pron|my} life. What did {er|pron|he} mean about “people around me”—presumably {dass|conj|that} means Gabriel? {Aber|conj|but} why? No. {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} doing {dies|pron|this}. {Dies|pron|this} is exactly what Jean-Felix wanted—to fuck with {mein|pron|my} head. Get me obsessing about him. Come between me {und|conj|and} Gabriel. {Ich|pron|i} won’t fall for {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} won’t {geben|verb|give|Gib mir das. — Give me that.} {es|pron|it} another thought. {Ich|pron|i} went back home, {und|conj|and} Gabriel was in bed, asleep. {Er|pron|he} had a five a.m. call for a shoot. {Aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} woke him up, {und|conj|and} {wir|pron|we} had sex. {Ich|pron|i} couldn’t get close {genug|adv|enough|Genug für heute. — Enough for today.} to him {oder|conj|or} feel him deeply {genug|adv|enough|Genug für heute. — Enough for today.} in me. {Ich|pron|i} wanted to be fused with him. {Ich|pron|i} wanted to climb inside him {und|conj|and} disappear.

AUGUST 11 {Ich|pron|i} saw {dass|conj|that} man {wieder|adv|again}. {Er|pron|he} was a bit farther away {dies|pron|this} time—{er|pron|he} was sitting on a bench farther into the park. {Aber|conj|but} {es|pron|it} was him, {Ich|pron|i} could tell—most people are wearing shorts {und|conj|and} T-shirts {und|conj|and} {leicht|adj|light|Die Tasche ist leicht. — The bag is light.} colors in {dies|pron|this} weather, {und|conj|and} {er|pron|he} was wearing a dark shirt {und|conj|and} trousers, black sunglasses, {und|conj|and} cap. {Sein|pron|his} head was angled toward the house, looking at {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} had a funny thought—{vielleicht|adv|maybe|Vielleicht morgen. — Maybe tomorrow.} {er|pron|he}’s {nicht|adv|not} a burglar, perhaps {er|pron|he}’s a painter. Perhaps {er|pron|he}’s a painter like me {und|conj|and} {er|pron|he}’s thinking about painting the street—{oder|conj|or} the house. {Aber|conj|but} as soon as {Ich|pron|i} thought {dies|pron|this}, {Ich|pron|i} knew {es|pron|it} wasn’t true. {Wenn|conj|if} {er|pron|he} were {wirklich|adv|really} going to paint the house, {er|pron|he} wouldn’t just be sitting {dort|adv|there}—{er|pron|he}’d be making sketches. {Ich|pron|i} got myself into a state about {es|pron|it} {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} phoned Gabriel. {Dass|conj|that} was a mistake. {Ich|pron|i} could tell {er|pron|he} was busy—the last {er|pron|he} needed was me calling, freaking out {weil|conj|because} {Ich|pron|i} think {jemand|pron|someone} is watching the house. Of course, {Ich|pron|i}’m {nur|adv|only} assuming the man is watching the house. {Er|pron|he} could be watching me. AUGUST 13 {Er|pron|he} was {dort|adv|there} {wieder|adv|again}. {Es|pron|it} was soon after Gabriel left {dies|pron|this} morning. {Ich|pron|i} had a shower {und|conj|and} saw him out the bathroom window. {Er|pron|he} was closer {dies|pron|this} time. {Er|pron|he} was standing outside the bus stop. Like {er|pron|he} was casually waiting for the bus. {Ich|pron|i} don’t {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} who {er|pron|he} thinks {er|pron|he}’s fooling. {Ich|pron|i} got dressed {schnell|adv|quickly|Er lief schnell. — He ran quickly.} {und|conj|and} went into the kitchen to have a better look. {Aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} was gone. {Ich|pron|i} decided to tell Gabriel about {es|pron|it} when {er|pron|he} got home. {Ich|pron|i} thought {er|pron|he}’d brush {es|pron|it} off, {aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} took {es|pron|it} seriously. {Er|pron|he} seemed quite worried. “Is {es|pron|it} Jean-Felix?” {er|pron|he} said straightaway. “No, of course {nicht|adv|not}. How can {du|pron|you} even think {dass|conj|that}?” {Ich|pron|i} tried to sound surprised {und|conj|and} indignant. {Aber|conj|but} in truth {Ich|pron|i} had wondered {dass|conj|that} too. The man {und|conj|and} Jean-Felix are the same build. {Es|pron|it} could be Jean-Felix, {aber|conj|but} even {also|conj|so}—{Ich|pron|i} just don’t want to believe {es|pron|it}. {Er|pron|he} wouldn’t try {und|conj|and} frighten me like {dass|conj|that}. Would {er|pron|he}?

“What’s Jean-Felix’s number?” Gabriel said. “{Ich|pron|i}’m calling him {richtig|adj|right} {jetzt|adv|now}.” “Darling, don’t, please. {Ich|pron|i}’m sure {es|pron|it}’s {nicht|adv|not} him.” “Positive?” “Absolutely. {Nichts|pron|nothing} happened. {Ich|pron|i} don’t {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} why {Ich|pron|i}’m making such a big deal out of {es|pron|it}. {Es|pron|it}’s {nichts|pron|nothing}.” “How long was {er|pron|he} {dort|adv|there} for?” “{Nicht|adv|not} long—an hour {oder|conj|or} {also|conj|so}—{und|conj|and} {dann|adv|then} {er|pron|he} vanished.” “What do {du|pron|you} mean, vanished?” “{Er|pron|he} just disappeared.” “Uh-huh. Is {dort|adv|there} any chance {du|pron|you} could be imagining {dies|pron|this}?” {Etwas|pron|something} about the way {er|pron|he} said {dass|conj|that} annoyed me. “{Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} imagining {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} need {du|pron|you} to believe me.” “{Ich|pron|i} do believe {du|pron|you}.” {Aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} could tell {er|pron|he} didn’t totally believe me. {Er|pron|he} {nur|adv|only} partly believed me. Part of him was just humoring me. Which makes me {wütend|adj|angry|Er war wütend. — He was angry.}, {wenn|conj|if} {Ich|pron|i}’m honest. {Also|conj|so} {wütend|adj|angry|Er war wütend. — He was angry.} {Ich|pron|i} have to stop {hier|adv|here}—{oder|conj|or} {Ich|pron|i} might write {etwas|pron|something} {Ich|pron|i}’ll regret. AUGUST 14 {Ich|pron|i} jumped out of bed as soon as {Ich|pron|i} woke up. {Ich|pron|i} checked the window, hoping the man would be {dort|adv|there} {wieder|adv|again}—{also|conj|so} Gabriel could {sehen|verb|see} him too—{aber|conj|but} {dort|adv|there} was no sign of him. {Also|conj|so} {Ich|pron|i} felt even more stupid. {Dies|pron|this} afternoon {Ich|pron|i} decided to {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} for a walk, despite the heat. {Ich|pron|i} wanted to be in the park, away from the buildings {und|conj|and} roads {und|conj|and} other people—{und|conj|and} be {allein|adv|alone|Er ist allein. — He is alone.} with {mein|pron|my} thoughts. {Ich|pron|i} walked up to Parliament Hill, passing the bodies of sunbathers strewn around on either side of the path. {Ich|pron|i} found a bench {dass|conj|that} was unoccupied, {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} sat down. {Ich|pron|i} stared out at London glinting in the distance. {Während|conj|while|Während sie schlief. — While she slept.} {Ich|pron|i} was {dort|adv|there}, {Ich|pron|i} was conscious the whole time of {etwas|pron|something}. {Ich|pron|i} kept looking over {mein|pron|my} shoulder—{aber|conj|but} couldn’t {sehen|verb|see} anyone. {Aber|conj|but} {jemand|pron|someone} was {dort|adv|there}, the whole time. {Ich|pron|i} could feel {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} was being watched. On {mein|pron|my} way back, {Ich|pron|i} walked past the pond. {Ich|pron|i} happened to look up—{und|conj|and} {dort|adv|there} {er|pron|he} was, the man. {Er|pron|he} was standing across the water on the other side, too {weit|adj|far|Der Laden ist weit. — The shop is far.} away to {sehen|verb|see} clearly, {aber|conj|but} {es|pron|it} was him. {Ich|pron|i} knew {es|pron|it} was him. {Er|pron|he} was standing perfectly {noch|adv|still}, motionless, staring {richtig|adj|right} at me.

{Ich|pron|i} felt an icy shiver of fear. {Ich|pron|i} acted out of instinct: “Jean-Felix?” {Ich|pron|i} shouted. “Is {dass|conj|that} {du|pron|you}? Stop {es|pron|it}. Stop following me!” {Er|pron|he} didn’t move. {Ich|pron|i} acted as {schnell|adj|fast|Ein schnelles Auto. — A fast car.} as {Ich|pron|i} could. {Ich|pron|i} reached into {mein|pron|my} pocket, pulled out {mein|pron|my} phone, {und|conj|and} took a photo of him. What {gut|adj|good|Sehr gut. — Very good.} {es|pron|it} will do, {Ich|pron|i} have no idea. {Dann|adv|then} {Ich|pron|i} turned {und|conj|and} started walking {schnell|adv|quickly|Er lief schnell. — He ran quickly.} to the end of the pond, {nicht|adv|not} letting myself look back until {Ich|pron|i} reached the main path. {Ich|pron|i} was scared {er|pron|he} was going to be {richtig|adj|right} behind me. {Ich|pron|i} turned around—{und|conj|and} {er|pron|he} was gone. {Ich|pron|i} hope {es|pron|it}’s {nicht|adv|not} Jean-Felix. {Ich|pron|i} {wirklich|adv|really} do. When {Ich|pron|i} got home, {Ich|pron|i} was feeling on edge. {Ich|pron|i} drew the blinds {und|conj|and} turned off the lights. {Ich|pron|i} peered out the window—{und|conj|and} {dort|adv|there} {er|pron|he} was: The man was standing on the street, staring up at me. {Ich|pron|i} froze—{Ich|pron|i} didn’t {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} what to do. {Ich|pron|i} nearly jumped out of {mein|pron|my} skin when {jemand|pron|someone} called {mein|pron|my} name: “Alicia? Alicia, are {du|pron|you} {dort|adv|there}?” {Es|pron|it} was {dass|conj|that} awful woman from next door. Barbie Hellmann. {Ich|pron|i} left the window {und|conj|and} went to the back door {und|conj|and} opened {es|pron|it}. Barbie had let herself in the side gate {und|conj|and} was in the garden, clutching a bottle of wine. “Hi, honey. {Ich|pron|i} saw {du|pron|you} weren’t in {dein|pron|your} studio. {Ich|pron|i} wondered where {du|pron|you} were.” “{Ich|pron|i} was out, {Ich|pron|i} just got back.” “Time for a drink?” {Sie|pron|she} said {dies|pron|this} in a baby voice {sie|pron|she} {manchmal|adv|sometimes|Manchmal ist es schwer. — Sometimes it's hard.} uses {und|conj|and} {dass|conj|that} {Ich|pron|i} find irritating. “Actually, {Ich|pron|i} should get back to work.” “Just a quick one. {Und|conj|and} {dann|adv|then} {Ich|pron|i} have to {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.}. {Ich|pron|i}’ve got {mein|pron|my} Italian class tonight. Okay?” Without waiting for a reply, {sie|pron|she} came in. {Sie|pron|she} said {etwas|pron|something} about how dark {es|pron|it} was in the kitchen {und|conj|and} started opening the blinds without asking me. {Ich|pron|i} was about to stop her, {aber|conj|but} when {Ich|pron|i} looked outside, no one was on the street. The man had gone. {Ich|pron|i} don’t {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} why {Ich|pron|i} told Barbie about {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} don’t like her {oder|conj|or} trust her—{aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} was scared, {Ich|pron|i} suppose, {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} needed {jemand|pron|someone} to talk to, {und|conj|and} {sie|pron|she} happened to be {dort|adv|there}. {Wir|pron|we} had a drink, which was unlike me, {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} burst into tears. Barbie

stared at me wide-eyed, silent for once. After {Ich|pron|i} finished, {sie|pron|she} put down her bottle of wine {und|conj|and} said, “{Dies|pron|this} calls for {etwas|pron|something} stronger.” {Sie|pron|she} poured us a couple of whiskeys. “{Hier|adv|here}.” {Sie|pron|she} gave {es|pron|it} to me. “{Du|pron|you} need {dies|pron|this}.” {Sie|pron|she} was {richtig|adj|right}—{Ich|pron|i} needed {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} knocked {es|pron|it} back {und|conj|and} felt a kick from {es|pron|it}. {Jetzt|adv|now} {es|pron|it} was {mein|pron|my} turn to listen, {während|conj|while|Während sie schlief. — While she slept.} Barbie talked. {Sie|pron|she} didn’t want to scare me, {sie|pron|she} said, {aber|conj|but} {es|pron|it} didn’t sound {gut|adj|good|Sehr gut. — Very good.}. “{Ich|pron|i}’ve seen {dies|pron|this} on like a million TV shows. {Er|pron|he}’s studying {dein|pron|your} house, okay? Before {er|pron|he} makes {sein|pron|his} move.” “{Du|pron|you} think {er|pron|he}’s a burglar?” Barbie shrugged. “{Oder|conj|or} a rapist. Does {dass|conj|that} matter? {Es|pron|it}’s {schlecht|adj|bad|Nicht schlecht. — Not bad.} news, whatever {es|pron|it} is.” {Ich|pron|i} laughed. {Ich|pron|i} felt relieved {und|conj|and} grateful {dass|conj|that} {jemand|pron|someone} was taking me seriously—even {wenn|conj|if} {es|pron|it} was just Barbie. {Ich|pron|i} showed her the photo on {mein|pron|my} phone, {aber|conj|but} {sie|pron|she} wasn’t impressed. “Text {es|pron|it} to me {also|conj|so} {Ich|pron|i} can look at {es|pron|it} with {mein|pron|my} glasses on. {Es|pron|it} looks like a blurry smudge to me. Tell me. Have {du|pron|you} mentioned {dies|pron|this} to {dein|pron|your} husband yet?” {Ich|pron|i} decided to lie. “No. {Nicht|adv|not} yet.” Barbie gave me a funny look. “Why {nicht|adv|not}?” “{Ich|pron|i} don’t {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.}, {Ich|pron|i} suppose {Ich|pron|i} worry Gabriel might think {Ich|pron|i}’m exaggerating—{oder|conj|or} imagining {es|pron|it}.” “Are {du|pron|you} imagining {es|pron|it}?” “No.” Barbie looked pleased. “{Wenn|conj|if} Gabriel doesn’t {nehmen|verb|take|Nimm das. — Take that.} {du|pron|you} seriously, {wir|pron|we}’ll {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} to the police {zusammen|adv|together|Wir sind zusammen. — We are together.}. {Du|pron|you} {und|conj|and} me. {Ich|pron|i} can be {sehr|adv|very} persuasive, believe me.” “Thanks, {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i}’m sure {dass|conj|that} won’t be necessary.” “{Es|pron|it}’s {schon|adv|already|Schon wieder. — Already again.} necessary. {Nehmen|verb|take|Nimm das. — Take that.} {dies|pron|this} seriously, honey. Promise me {du|pron|you}’ll tell Gabriel when {er|pron|he} gets home?” {Ich|pron|i} nodded. {Aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} had {schon|adv|already|Schon wieder. — Already again.} decided {nicht|adv|not} to say anything further to Gabriel. {Dort|adv|there} was {nichts|pron|nothing} to tell. {Ich|pron|i} have no proof the man was following me {oder|conj|or} watching me. Barbie was {richtig|adj|right}, the photo proves {nichts|pron|nothing}. {Es|pron|it} was all in {mein|pron|my} imagination—{dass|conj|that}’s what Gabriel will say. Best {nicht|adv|not} to say anything to him at all {und|conj|and} risk upsetting him {wieder|adv|again}. {Ich|pron|i} don’t want to bother

him. {Ich|pron|i}’m going to forget all about {es|pron|it}. 4:00 A.M. {Es|pron|it}’s been a {schlecht|adj|bad|Nicht schlecht. — Not bad.} night. Gabriel came home, exhausted, at about ten. {Er|pron|he}’d had a long day {und|conj|and} wanted to {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} to bed {früh|adj|early|Es ist früh. — It is early.}. {Ich|pron|i} tried to sleep too, {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} couldn’t. {Dann|adv|then} a couple of hours ago, {Ich|pron|i} heard a noise. {Es|pron|it} was coming from the garden. {Ich|pron|i} got up {und|conj|and} went to the back window. {Ich|pron|i} looked out—{Ich|pron|i} couldn’t {sehen|verb|see} anyone, {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} felt {jemand|pron|someone}’s eyes on me. {Jemand|pron|someone} was watching me from the shadows. {Ich|pron|i} managed to pull myself away from the window {und|conj|and} ran to the bedroom. {Ich|pron|i} shook Gabriel awake. “The man is outside,” {Ich|pron|i} said, “{er|pron|he}’s outside the house.” Gabriel didn’t {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} what {Ich|pron|i} was talking about. When {er|pron|he} understood, {er|pron|he} started to get {wütend|adj|angry|Er war wütend. — He was angry.}. “For Christ’s sake. {Geben|verb|give|Gib mir das. — Give me that.} {es|pron|it} a rest. {Ich|pron|i}’ve got to be at work in three hours. {Ich|pron|i} don’t want to play {dies|pron|this} fucking game.” “{Es|pron|it}’s {nicht|adv|not} a game. Come {und|conj|and} look. Please.” {Also|conj|so} {wir|pron|we} went to the window— {Und|conj|and} of course, the man wasn’t {dort|adv|there}. {Dort|adv|there} was no one {dort|adv|there}. {Ich|pron|i} wanted Gabriel to {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} outside, to check, {aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} wouldn’t. {Er|pron|he} went back upstairs, annoyed. {Ich|pron|i} tried reasoning with him, {aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} said {er|pron|he} wasn’t talking to me {und|conj|and} went to sleep in the spare room. {Ich|pron|i} didn’t {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} back to bed. {Ich|pron|i}’ve been sitting {hier|adv|here} {seit|conj|since|Seit gestern. — Since yesterday.} {dann|adv|then}, waiting, listening, alert to any sound, checking the windows. No sign of him {also|conj|so} {weit|adj|far|Der Laden ist weit. — The shop is far.}. {Nur|adv|only} a couple more hours to {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.}. {Es|pron|it} will be {leicht|adj|light|Die Tasche ist leicht. — The bag is light.} soon. AUGUST 15 Gabriel came downstairs ready to {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} to the shoot. When {er|pron|he} saw me by the window {und|conj|and} realized {Ich|pron|i}’d been up all night, {er|pron|he} went quiet {und|conj|and} started acting strange. “Alicia, sit down. {Wir|pron|we} need to talk.” “Yes. {Wir|pron|we} do need to talk. About the fact {dass|conj|that} {du|pron|you} don’t believe me.” “{Ich|pron|i} believe {dass|conj|that} {du|pron|you} believe {es|pron|it}.”

“{Dass|conj|that}’s {nicht|adv|not} the same thing. {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} a fucking idiot.” “{Ich|pron|i} {nie|adv|never} said {du|pron|you} were an idiot.” “{Dann|adv|then} what are {du|pron|you} saying?” {Ich|pron|i} thought {wir|pron|we} were about to get into a fight, {also|conj|so} {Ich|pron|i} was taken aback by what Gabriel said. {Er|pron|he} spoke in a whisper. {Ich|pron|i} could barely hear him. {Er|pron|he} said: “{Ich|pron|i} want {du|pron|you} to talk to {jemand|pron|someone}. Please.” “What do {du|pron|you} mean? A policeman?” “No,” Gabriel said, looking {wütend|adj|angry|Er war wütend. — He was angry.} {wieder|adv|again}. “{Nicht|adv|not} a policeman.” {Ich|pron|i} understood what {er|pron|he} meant, what {er|pron|he} was saying. {Aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} needed to hear him say {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} wanted him to spell {es|pron|it} out. “{Dann|adv|then} who?” “A doctor.” “{Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} seeing a doctor, Gabriel—” “{Ich|pron|i} need {du|pron|you} to do {dies|pron|this} for me. {Du|pron|you} need to meet me halfway.” {Er|pron|he} said {es|pron|it} {wieder|adv|again}: “{Ich|pron|i} need {du|pron|you} to meet me halfway.” “{Ich|pron|i} don’t understand what {du|pron|you} mean. Halfway where? {Ich|pron|i}’m {richtig|adj|right} {hier|adv|here}.” “No, {du|pron|you}’re {nicht|adv|not}. {Du|pron|you}’re {nicht|adv|not} {hier|adv|here}!” {Er|pron|he} looked {also|conj|so} {müde|adj|tired|Er ist müde. — He is tired.}, {also|conj|so} upset. {Ich|pron|i} wanted to protect him. {Ich|pron|i} wanted to comfort him. “{Es|pron|it}’s okay, darling,” {Ich|pron|i} said. “{Es|pron|it}’s going to be okay, {du|pron|you}’ll {sehen|verb|see}.” Gabriel shook {sein|pron|his} head, like {er|pron|he} didn’t believe me. “{Ich|pron|i}’m going to make an appointment with Dr. West. As soon as {er|pron|he} can {sehen|verb|see} {du|pron|you}. {Heute|adv|today|Heute ist ein guter Tag. — Today is a good day.} {wenn|conj|if} possible.” {Er|pron|he} hesitated {und|conj|and} looked at me. “Okay?” Gabriel held out {sein|pron|his} hand for mine—{Ich|pron|i} wanted to slap {es|pron|it} away {oder|conj|or} scratch {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} wanted to bite him {oder|conj|or} hit him, {oder|conj|or} throw over the table {und|conj|and} scream, “{Du|pron|you} think {Ich|pron|i}’m fucking crazy {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} crazy! {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not}, {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not}, {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not}!” {Aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} didn’t do any of those things. Instead {Ich|pron|i} nodded {und|conj|and} took Gabriel’s hand, {und|conj|and} held {es|pron|it}. “Okay, darling,” {Ich|pron|i} said. “Whatever {du|pron|you} want.” AUGUST 16 {Ich|pron|i} went to {sehen|verb|see} Dr. West {heute|adv|today|Heute ist ein guter Tag. — Today is a good day.}. Unwillingly, {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} went. {Ich|pron|i} hate him, {Ich|pron|i}’ve decided. {Ich|pron|i} hate him {und|conj|and} {sein|pron|his} narrow house, {und|conj|and} sitting in {dass|conj|that}

weird, {klein|adj|small|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} room upstairs, hearing {sein|pron|his} dog barking in the living room. {Es|pron|it} {nie|adv|never} stopped barking, the whole time {Ich|pron|i} was {dort|adv|there}. {Ich|pron|i} wanted to shout at {es|pron|it} to shut up, {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} kept thinking Dr. West would say {etwas|pron|something} about {es|pron|it}, {aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} acted like {er|pron|he} couldn’t hear {es|pron|it}. {Vielleicht|adv|maybe|Vielleicht morgen. — Maybe tomorrow.} {er|pron|he} couldn’t. {Er|pron|he} didn’t seem to hear anything {Ich|pron|i} was saying either. {Ich|pron|i} told him what happened. {Ich|pron|i} told him about the man watching the house, {und|conj|and} how {Ich|pron|i} had seen him following me into the park. {Ich|pron|i} said all of {dies|pron|this}, {aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} didn’t respond. {Er|pron|he} just sat {dort|adv|there} with {dass|conj|that} thin smile of {sein|pron|his}. {Er|pron|he} looked at me like {Ich|pron|i} was an insect {oder|conj|or} {etwas|pron|something}. {Ich|pron|i} {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} {er|pron|he}’s supposedly a friend of Gabriel’s, {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} don’t {sehen|verb|see} how {sie|pron|they} ever could have been friends. Gabriel is {also|conj|so} warm, {und|conj|and} Dr. West is the opposite of warm. {Es|pron|it}’s a strange thing to say about a doctor, {aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} has no kindness. After {Ich|pron|i} finished telling him about the man, {er|pron|he} didn’t speak for ages. The silence seemed to last forever. The {nur|adv|only} sound was {dass|conj|that} dog downstairs. {Ich|pron|i} started to mentally tune in to the barking {und|conj|and} {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} into a kind of trance. {Es|pron|it} took me by surprise when Dr. West actually spoke. “{Wir|pron|we}’ve been {hier|adv|here} before, Alicia, haven’t {wir|pron|we}?” {Ich|pron|i} looked at him blankly. {Ich|pron|i} wasn’t sure what {er|pron|he} meant. “Have {wir|pron|we}?” {Er|pron|he} nodded. “Yes. {Wir|pron|we} have.” “{Ich|pron|i} {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} {du|pron|you} think {Ich|pron|i}’m imagining {dies|pron|this}. {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} imagining {es|pron|it}. {Es|pron|it}’s real.” “{Dass|conj|that}’s what {du|pron|you} said last time. Remember last time? Do {du|pron|you} remember what happened?” {Ich|pron|i} didn’t reply. {Ich|pron|i} didn’t want to {geben|verb|give|Gib mir das. — Give me that.} him the satisfaction. {Ich|pron|i} just sat {dort|adv|there}, glaring at him, like a disobedient child. Dr. West didn’t wait for an answer. {Er|pron|he} kept talking, reminding me what happened after {mein|pron|my} father died, about the breakdown {Ich|pron|i} suffered, the paranoid accusations {dass|conj|that} {Ich|pron|i} made—the belief {Ich|pron|i} was being watched, being followed, {und|conj|and} spied upon. “{Also|conj|so}, {du|pron|you} {sehen|verb|see}, {wir|pron|we}’ve been {hier|adv|here} before, haven’t {wir|pron|we}?” “{Aber|conj|but} {dass|conj|that} was different. {Es|pron|it} was just a feeling. {Ich|pron|i} {nie|adv|never} actually saw {jemand|pron|someone}. {Dies|pron|this} time {Ich|pron|i} saw {jemand|pron|someone}.” “{Und|conj|and} who did {du|pron|you} {sehen|verb|see}?” “{Ich|pron|i} {schon|adv|already|Schon wieder. — Already again.} told {du|pron|you}. A man.” “Describe him to me.” {Ich|pron|i} hesitated. “{Ich|pron|i} can’t.”

“Why {nicht|adv|not}?” “{Ich|pron|i} couldn’t {sehen|verb|see} him clearly. {Ich|pron|i} told {du|pron|you}—{er|pron|he} was too {weit|adj|far|Der Laden ist weit. — The shop is far.} away.” “{Ich|pron|i} {sehen|verb|see}.” “{Und|conj|and}—{er|pron|he} was in disguise. {Er|pron|he} was wearing a cap. {Und|conj|and} sunglasses.” “A lot of people are wearing sunglasses in {dies|pron|this} weather. {Und|conj|and} hats. Are {sie|pron|they} all in disguise?” {Ich|pron|i} was starting to lose {mein|pron|my} temper. “{Ich|pron|i} {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} what {du|pron|you}’re trying to do.” “{Und|conj|and} what is {dass|conj|that}?” “{Du|pron|you}’re trying to get me to admit {Ich|pron|i}’m going crazy {wieder|adv|again}—like after Dad died.” “Is {dass|conj|that} what {du|pron|you} think is happening?” “No. {Dass|conj|that} time {Ich|pron|i} was sick. {Dies|pron|this} time {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} sick. {Nichts|pron|nothing}’s the matter with me—apart from the fact {dass|conj|that} {jemand|pron|someone} is spying on me {und|conj|and} {du|pron|you} won’t believe me!” Dr. West nodded, {aber|conj|but} didn’t say anything. {Er|pron|he} wrote a couple of things down in {sein|pron|his} notebook. “{Ich|pron|i}’m going to put {du|pron|you} back on medication. As a precaution. {Wir|pron|we} don’t want to let {dies|pron|this} get out hand, do {wir|pron|we}?” {Ich|pron|i} shook {mein|pron|my} head. “{Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} taking any pills.” “{Ich|pron|i} {sehen|verb|see}. Well, {wenn|conj|if} {du|pron|you} refuse the medication, {es|pron|it}’s {wichtig|adj|important|Das ist wichtig. — That is important.} to be aware of the consequences.” “What consequences? Are {du|pron|you} threatening me?” “{Es|pron|it}’s {nichts|pron|nothing} to do with me. {Ich|pron|i}’m talking about {dein|pron|your} husband. How do {du|pron|you} think Gabriel feels about what {er|pron|he} went through, last time {du|pron|you} were unwell?” {Ich|pron|i} pictured Gabriel downstairs, waiting in the living room with the barking dog. “{Ich|pron|i} don’t {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.}. Why don’t {du|pron|you} ask him?” “Do {du|pron|you} want him to have to {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} through {es|pron|it} all {wieder|adv|again}? Do {du|pron|you} perhaps think {dort|adv|there}’s a limit to how much {er|pron|he} can {nehmen|verb|take|Nimm das. — Take that.}?” “What are {du|pron|you} saying? {Ich|pron|i}’ll lose Gabriel? {Dass|conj|that}’s what {du|pron|you} think?” Even saying {es|pron|it} made me feel sick. The thought of losing him, {Ich|pron|i} couldn’t bear {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i}’d do anything to keep him—even pretend {Ich|pron|i}’m crazy when {Ich|pron|i} {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not}. {Also|conj|so}

{Ich|pron|i} gave in. {Ich|pron|i} agreed to be “honest’ with Dr. West about what {Ich|pron|i} was thinking {und|conj|and} feeling {und|conj|and} tell him {wenn|conj|if} {Ich|pron|i} heard any voices. {Ich|pron|i} promised to {nehmen|verb|take|Nimm das. — Take that.} the pills {er|pron|he} gave me, {und|conj|and} to come back in two weeks, for a checkup. Dr. West looked pleased. {Er|pron|he} said {wir|pron|we} could {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} downstairs {jetzt|adv|now} {und|conj|and} rejoin Gabriel. As {er|pron|he} went downstairs in front of me, {Ich|pron|i} thought about reaching forward {und|conj|and} shoving him down the stairs. {Ich|pron|i} wish {Ich|pron|i} had. Gabriel seemed much happier on the way home. {Er|pron|he} kept glancing at me as {er|pron|he} was driving {und|conj|and} smiling. “Well done. {Ich|pron|i}’m proud of {du|pron|you}. {Wir|pron|we}’re going to get through {dies|pron|this}, {du|pron|you}’ll {sehen|verb|see}.” {Ich|pron|i} nodded {aber|conj|but} didn’t say anything. {Weil|conj|because} of course {es|pron|it}’s bullshit—“{wir|pron|we}” aren’t going to get through {dies|pron|this}. {Ich|pron|i}’m going to have to deal with {es|pron|it} {allein|adv|alone|Er ist allein. — He is alone.}. {Es|pron|it} was a mistake telling anyone. {Morgen|adv|tomorrow|Morgen sehen wir uns. — Tomorrow we'll see each other.} {Ich|pron|i}’m going to tell Barbie to forget all about {es|pron|it}—{Ich|pron|i}’ll say {Ich|pron|i}’ve put {es|pron|it} behind me {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} don’t want to talk about {es|pron|it} {wieder|adv|again}. {Sie|pron|she}’ll think {Ich|pron|i}’m odd {und|conj|and} {sie|pron|she}’ll be annoyed {weil|conj|because} {Ich|pron|i}’ll be denying her the drama, {aber|conj|but} {wenn|conj|if} {Ich|pron|i} act normally, {sie|pron|she}’ll soon forget all about {es|pron|it}. As for Gabriel, {Ich|pron|i}’m going to put {sein|pron|his} mind at rest. {Ich|pron|i}’m going to act like everything is back to normal. {Ich|pron|i}’ll {geben|verb|give|Gib mir das. — Give me that.} a brilliant performance. {Ich|pron|i} won’t let {mein|pron|my} guard slip for a second. {Wir|pron|we} went to the pharmacy on the way back, {und|conj|and} Gabriel got {mein|pron|my} prescription. Once {wir|pron|we} were home {wieder|adv|again}, {wir|pron|we} went into the kitchen. {Er|pron|he} gave me the yellow pills with a glass of water. “{Nehmen|verb|take|Nimm das. — Take that.} them.” “{Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} a child. {Du|pron|you} don’t need to hand them to me.” “{Ich|pron|i} {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} {du|pron|you}’re {nicht|adv|not} a child. {Ich|pron|i} just want to make sure {du|pron|you}’ll {nehmen|verb|take|Nimm das. — Take that.} them—{und|conj|and} {nicht|adv|not} throw them away.” “{Ich|pron|i}’ll {nehmen|verb|take|Nimm das. — Take that.} them.” “{Gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} on, {dann|adv|then}.” Gabriel watched me put the pills in {mein|pron|my} mouth {und|conj|and} sip some water. “{Gut|adj|good|Sehr gut. — Very good.} girl,” {er|pron|he} said, {und|conj|and} kissed {mein|pron|my} cheek. {Er|pron|he} left the room. The moment Gabriel’s back was turned, {Ich|pron|i} spat out the pills. {Ich|pron|i} spat them into the sink {und|conj|and} washed them down the drain. {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} taking any medication. The drugs Dr. West gave me last time nearly drove me crazy. {Und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} going to risk {dass|conj|that} {wieder|adv|again}.

{Ich|pron|i} need {mein|pron|my} wits about me {jetzt|adv|now}. {Ich|pron|i} need to be prepared. AUGUST 17 {Ich|pron|i}’ve started hiding {dies|pron|this} diary. {Dort|adv|there}’s a loose floorboard in the spare bedroom. {Ich|pron|i}’m keeping {es|pron|it} {dort|adv|there}, out of sight in the space underneath the floorboards. Why? Well, {Ich|pron|i}’m being too honest {hier|adv|here} in these pages. {Es|pron|it}’s {nicht|adv|not} safe to leave {es|pron|it} lying around. {Ich|pron|i} keep imagining Gabriel stumbling across the notebook {und|conj|and} fighting {sein|pron|his} curiosity {aber|conj|but} {dann|adv|then} opening {es|pron|it} {und|conj|and} starting to read. {Wenn|conj|if} {er|pron|he} found out {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} taking the medication, {er|pron|he}’d feel {also|conj|so} betrayed, {also|conj|so} hurt—{Ich|pron|i} couldn’t bear {dass|conj|that}. Thank God {Ich|pron|i} have {dies|pron|this} diary to write in. {Es|pron|it}’s keeping me sane. {Dort|adv|there}’s no one else {Ich|pron|i} can talk to. No one {Ich|pron|i} can trust. AUGUST 21 {Ich|pron|i}’ve {nicht|adv|not} been outside for three days. {Ich|pron|i}’ve been pretending to Gabriel {dass|conj|that} {Ich|pron|i}’m going for walks in the afternoons when {er|pron|he}’s out, {aber|conj|but} {es|pron|it}’s {nicht|adv|not} true. {Es|pron|it} makes me fearful, the thought of going outside. {Ich|pron|i}’ll be too exposed. At least {hier|adv|here}, in the house, {Ich|pron|i} {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} {Ich|pron|i}’m safe. {Ich|pron|i} can sit by the window {und|conj|and} monitor the passersby. {Ich|pron|i}’m scanning each face {dass|conj|that} passes for {dass|conj|that} man’s face—{aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} don’t {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} what {er|pron|he} looks like, {dass|conj|that}’s the problem. {Er|pron|he} could have removed {sein|pron|his} disguise {und|conj|and} be moving about in front of me, completely unnoticed. {Dass|conj|that}’s an alarming thought. AUGUST 22 {Noch|adv|still} no sign of him. {Aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} mustn’t lose focus. {Es|pron|it}’s just a matter of time. Sooner {oder|conj|or} later {er|pron|he}’ll be back. {Ich|pron|i} need to be ready. {Ich|pron|i} need to {nehmen|verb|take|Nimm das. — Take that.} steps. {Ich|pron|i} woke up {dies|pron|this} morning {und|conj|and} remembered Gabriel’s gun. {Ich|pron|i}’m going to move {es|pron|it} from the spare room. {Ich|pron|i}’ll keep {es|pron|it} downstairs where {Ich|pron|i} can get to {es|pron|it} easily. {Ich|pron|i}’ll put {es|pron|it} in the kitchen cupboard, by the window. {Dass|conj|that} way {es|pron|it} will be {dort|adv|there} {wenn|conj|if} {Ich|pron|i} need {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} all {dies|pron|this} sounds crazy. {Ich|pron|i} hope {nichts|pron|nothing} comes of {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} hope {Ich|pron|i} {nie|adv|never} {sehen|verb|see} the man {wieder|adv|again}. {Aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} have a horrible feeling {Ich|pron|i} will. Where is {er|pron|he}? Why hasn’t {er|pron|he} been {hier|adv|here}? Is {er|pron|he} trying to get me to lower {mein|pron|my}

guard? {Ich|pron|i} mustn’t do {dass|conj|that}. {Ich|pron|i} must continue {mein|pron|my} vigil by the window. Keep waiting. Keep watching. AUGUST 23 {Ich|pron|i}’m starting to think {Ich|pron|i} imagined the whole thing. {Vielleicht|adv|maybe|Vielleicht morgen. — Maybe tomorrow.} {Ich|pron|i} did. Gabriel keeps asking me how {Ich|pron|i}’m doing—{wenn|conj|if} {Ich|pron|i}’m okay. {Ich|pron|i} can tell {er|pron|he}’s worried, despite me insisting {Ich|pron|i}’m fine. {Mein|pron|my} acting doesn’t seem to be convincing him anymore. {Ich|pron|i} need to try harder. {Ich|pron|i} pretend to be focused on work all day, whereas in fact work couldn’t be further from {mein|pron|my} mind. {Ich|pron|i}’ve lost any connection with {es|pron|it}, any impetus to finish the paintings. As {Ich|pron|i} write {dies|pron|this}, {Ich|pron|i} can’t honestly say {Ich|pron|i} think {Ich|pron|i}’ll paint {wieder|adv|again}. {Nicht|adv|not} until all {dies|pron|this} is behind me, anyway. {Ich|pron|i}’ve been making excuses about why {Ich|pron|i} don’t want to {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.} out, {aber|conj|but} Gabriel told me tonight {Ich|pron|i} had no choice. Max has asked us out to dinner. {Ich|pron|i} can’t think of anything worse than seeing Max. {Ich|pron|i} pleaded with Gabriel to cancel, saying {Ich|pron|i} needed to work, {aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} told me {es|pron|it} would do me {gut|adj|good|Sehr gut. — Very good.} to {gehen|verb|go|Wir gehen jetzt. — We go now.}. {Er|pron|he} insisted {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} could tell {er|pron|he} meant {es|pron|it}, {also|conj|so} {Ich|pron|i} had no choice. {Ich|pron|i} gave in {und|conj|and} said yes. {Ich|pron|i}’ve been worrying all day, about tonight. {Weil|conj|because} as soon as {mein|pron|my} mind started turning on {es|pron|it}, everything seemed to fall into place. Everything made sense. {Ich|pron|i} don’t {wissen|verb|know|Ich will es wissen. — I want to know it.} why {Ich|pron|i} didn’t think of {es|pron|it} before, {es|pron|it}’s {also|conj|so} obvious. {Ich|pron|i} understand {jetzt|adv|now}. The man—the man who’s watching—{es|pron|it} isn’t Jean-Felix. Jean-Felix isn’t dark {oder|conj|or} devious {genug|adv|enough|Genug für heute. — Enough for today.} to do {dies|pron|this} kind of thing. Who else would want to torment me, scare me, punish me? Max. Of course {es|pron|it}’s Max. {Es|pron|it} has to be Max. {Er|pron|he}’s trying to drive me crazy. {Ich|pron|i}’m dreading {es|pron|it}, {aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} must work up the courage somehow. {Ich|pron|i}’m going to do {es|pron|it} tonight. {Ich|pron|i}’m going to confront him. AUGUST 24 {Es|pron|it} felt strange {und|conj|and} a little frightening to {gehen|verb|go} out last night, after {also|conj|so} long inside the house. The outside world felt huge—an {leer|adj|empty|Das Glas ist leer. — The glass is empty.} space around me, the big sky above. {Ich|pron|i} felt {sehr|adv|very} {klein|adj|small|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} {und|conj|and} held on to Gabriel’s arm for support.

Even though {wir|pron|we} went to {unser|pron|our} {alt|adj|old|Ein altes Haus. — An old house.} favorite, Augusto’s, {Ich|pron|i} didn’t feel safe. {Es|pron|it} didn’t feel comforting {oder|conj|or} familiar like {es|pron|it} used to. The restaurant seemed different somehow. {Und|conj|and} {es|pron|it} smelled different—{es|pron|it} smelled of {etwas|pron|something} burning. {Ich|pron|i} asked Gabriel {wenn|conj|if} {etwas|pron|something} was on fire in the kitchen, {aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} said {er|pron|he} couldn’t smell anything, {dass|conj|that} {Ich|pron|i} was imagining {es|pron|it}. “Everything’s fine,” {er|pron|he} said. “Just {ruhig|adj|calm|Es war ruhig. — It was calm.} down.” “{Ich|pron|i} am {ruhig|adj|calm|Es war ruhig. — It was calm.}. Don’t {Ich|pron|i} seem {ruhig|adj|calm|Es war ruhig. — It was calm.}?” Gabriel didn’t respond. {Er|pron|he} just clenched {sein|pron|his} jaw, the way {er|pron|he} does when {er|pron|he}’s annoyed. {Wir|pron|we} sat down {und|conj|and} waited for Max in silence. Max brought {sein|pron|his} receptionist to dinner. Tanya, {sie|pron|she}’s called. Apparently {sie|pron|they}’ve started dating. Max was acting like {er|pron|he} was smitten with her, {sein|pron|his} hands all over her, touching her, kissing her—{und|conj|and} all the time {er|pron|he} kept staring at me. Did {er|pron|he} think {er|pron|he} was going to make me jealous? {Er|pron|he}’s horrible. {Er|pron|he} makes me sick. Tanya noticed {etwas|pron|something} was up—{sie|pron|she} caught Max staring at me a couple of times. {Ich|pron|i} should warn her about him {wirklich|adv|really}. Tell her what {sie|pron|she}’s getting into. {Vielleicht|adv|maybe|Vielleicht morgen. — Maybe tomorrow.} {Ich|pron|i} will, {aber|conj|but} {nicht|adv|not} {richtig|adj|right} {jetzt|adv|now}. {Ich|pron|i}’ve got other priorities at the moment. Max said {er|pron|he} was going to the bathroom. {Ich|pron|i} waited a moment {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} {dann|adv|then} seized {mein|pron|my} chance. {Ich|pron|i} said {Ich|pron|i} needed the bathroom too. {Ich|pron|i} left the table {und|conj|and} followed him. {Ich|pron|i} caught up with Max around the corner {und|conj|and} grabbed hold of {sein|pron|his} arm. {Ich|pron|i} gripped {es|pron|it} hard. “Stop {es|pron|it},” {Ich|pron|i} said. “Stop {es|pron|it}!” Max looked bemused. “Stop what?” “{Du|pron|you}’re spying on me, Max. {Du|pron|you}’re watching me. {Ich|pron|i} {wissen|verb|know} {du|pron|you} are.” “What? {Ich|pron|i} have no idea what {du|pron|you} are talking about, Alicia.” “Don’t lie to me.” {Ich|pron|i} was finding {es|pron|it} hard to control {mein|pron|my} voice. {Ich|pron|i} wanted to scream. “{Ich|pron|i}’ve seen {du|pron|you}, okay? {Ich|pron|i} took a photo. {Ich|pron|i} took a picture of {du|pron|you}!” Max laughed. “What are {du|pron|you} talking about? Let {gehen|verb|go} of me, {du|pron|you} crazy bitch.” {Ich|pron|i} slapped {sein|pron|his} face. Hard. {Und|conj|and} {dann|adv|then} {Ich|pron|i} turned {und|conj|and} saw Tanya standing {dort|adv|there}. {Sie|pron|she} looked like {sie|pron|she} was the one who’d been slapped. Tanya looked from Max to me {aber|conj|but} didn’t say anything. {Sie|pron|she} walked out of the restaurant.

Max glared at me, {und|conj|and} before {er|pron|he} followed her, {er|pron|he} hissed, “{Ich|pron|i} have no idea what {du|pron|you}’re talking about. {Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} fucking watching {du|pron|you}. {Jetzt|adv|now}, get out of {mein|pron|my} way.” The way {er|pron|he} said {es|pron|it}, with such anger, such contempt, {Ich|pron|i} could tell Max was speaking the truth. {Ich|pron|i} believed him. {Ich|pron|i} didn’t want to believe him—{aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} did. {Aber|conj|but} {wenn|conj|if} {es|pron|it}’s {nicht|adv|not} Max … who is {es|pron|it}? AUGUST 25 {Ich|pron|i} just heard {etwas|pron|something}. A noise outside. {Ich|pron|i} checked the window. {Und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} saw {jemand|pron|someone}, moving in the shadows— {Es|pron|it}’s the man. {Er|pron|he}’s outside. {Ich|pron|i} phoned Gabriel {aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} didn’t pick up. Should {Ich|pron|i} call the police? {Ich|pron|i} don’t {wissen|verb|know} what to do. {Mein|pron|my} hand is shaking {also|conj|so} much {Ich|pron|i} can barely— {Ich|pron|i} can hear him—downstairs—{er|pron|he}’s trying the windows, {und|conj|and} the doors. {Er|pron|he}’s trying to get in. {Ich|pron|i} need to get out of {hier|adv|here}. {Ich|pron|i} need to escape. Oh {mein|pron|my} God—{Ich|pron|i} can hear him— {Er|pron|he}’s inside. {Er|pron|he}’s inside the house.

---

## New Words This Chapter

| English | German | Type |
|---------|--------|------|
| tall | groß | adj |
| tired | müde | adj |
