# Chapter 8

---

THE HOUSE WAS IN DARKNESS as {wir|pron|we} approached. “{Hier|adv|here} {es|pron|it} is,” Paul said. “Follow me.” An iron ladder was attached to the side of the house. {Wir|pron|we} made {unser|pron|our} way over to {es|pron|it}. The mud was frozen beneath {unser|pron|our} feet, sculpted into hard ripples {und|conj|and} ridges. Without waiting for me, Paul started climbing up. {Es|pron|it} was getting colder by the minute. {Ich|pron|i} was wondering {wenn|conj|if} {dies|pron|this} was such a {gut|adj|good} idea. {Ich|pron|i} followed him {und|conj|and} gripped the first rung—icy {und|conj|and} slippery. {Es|pron|it} was overgrown with some kind of climbing plant; ivy, perhaps. {Ich|pron|i} made {mein|pron|my} way up, rung by rung. By the time {Ich|pron|i} reached the top, {mein|pron|my} fingers were numb {und|conj|and} the wind was slashing {mein|pron|my} face. {Ich|pron|i} climbed over, onto the roof. Paul was waiting for me, grinning in an excited, adolescent way. The razor-thin moon hung above us; the rest was darkness. {Plötzlich|adv|suddenly|Plötzlich war es still. — Suddenly it was quiet.} Paul rushed at me, a strange expression on {sein|pron|his} face. {Ich|pron|i} felt a flicker of panic as {sein|pron|his} arm reached out toward me—{Ich|pron|i} swerved to avoid {es|pron|it}, {aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} grabbed hold of me. For a terrifying second {Ich|pron|i} thought {er|pron|he} was going to throw me off the roof. Instead {er|pron|he} pulled me toward him. “{Du|pron|you}’re too close to the edge. Stay in the middle {hier|adv|here}. {Es|pron|it}’s safer.” {Ich|pron|i} nodded, catching {mein|pron|my} breath. {Dies|pron|this} was a {schlecht|adj|bad|Nicht schlecht. — Not bad.} idea. {Ich|pron|i} didn’t feel remotely {sicher|adj|safe|Das ist sicher. — That is safe.} around Paul. {Ich|pron|i} was about to suggest climbing down {wieder|adv|again}—{dann|adv|then} {er|pron|he} pulled out {sein|pron|his} cigarettes {und|conj|and} offered me one. {Ich|pron|i} hesitated, {dann|adv|then} {Ich|pron|i} accepted. {Mein|pron|my} fingers were shaking as {Ich|pron|i} took out {mein|pron|my} lighter {und|conj|and} lit the cigarettes. {Wir|pron|we} stood {dort|adv|there} {und|conj|and} smoked in silence for a moment. “{Dies|pron|this} is where {wir|pron|we} would sit. Alicia {und|conj|and} me. Every day, pretty much.” “How {alt|adj|old|Ein altes Haus. — An old house.} were {du|pron|you}?” “{Ich|pron|i} was about seven, {vielleicht|adv|maybe|Vielleicht morgen. — Maybe tomorrow.} eight. Alicia couldn’t have been more than ten.” “{Du|pron|you} were a bit {jung|adj|young|Ein junger Mann. — A young man.} to be climbing ladders.” “{Ich|pron|i} suppose {also|conj|so}. Seemed normal to us. When {wir|pron|we} were teenagers, {wir|pron|we}’d {kommen|verb|come|Sie kommen morgen. — They come tomorrow.} up {und|conj|and} smoke {und|conj|and} drink beers.”

{Ich|pron|i} tried to picture a teenage Alicia, hiding from her father {und|conj|and} her bullying aunt; Paul, her adoring younger cousin, following up the ladder, pestering her when {sie|pron|she}’d much rather be silent, {allein|adv|alone|Er ist allein. — He is alone.} with her thoughts. “{Es|pron|it}’s a {gut|adj|good} hiding place,” {Ich|pron|i} said. Paul nodded. “Uncle Vernon couldn’t make {es|pron|it} up the ladder. {Er|pron|he} had a big build, like Mum.” “{Ich|pron|i} could barely make {es|pron|it} up myself. {Dass|conj|that} ivy is a death trap.” “{Es|pron|it}’s {nicht|adv|not} ivy, {es|pron|it}’s jasmine.” Paul looked at the green vines {dass|conj|that} curled over the top of the ladder. “No flowers yet—{nicht|adv|not} until the spring. Smells like perfume {dann|adv|then}, when {dort|adv|there}’s a lot of {es|pron|it}.” {Er|pron|he} seemed lost in a memory for a moment. “Funny {dass|conj|that}.” “What?” “{Nichts|pron|nothing}.” {Er|pron|he} shrugged. “The things {du|pron|you} remember … {Ich|pron|i} just was thinking about the jasmine—{es|pron|it} was in {voll|adj|full|Das Glas ist voll. — The glass is full.} bloom {dass|conj|that} day, the day of the accident, when Eva was killed.” {Ich|pron|i} looked around. “{Du|pron|you} {und|conj|and} Alicia came up {hier|adv|here} {zusammen|adv|together|Wir sind zusammen. — We are together.}, {du|pron|you} said?” {Er|pron|he} nodded. “Mum {und|conj|and} Uncle Vernon were looking for us down {dort|adv|there}. {Wir|pron|we} could hear them calling. {Aber|conj|but} {wir|pron|we} didn’t {sagen|verb|say|Was sagst du? — What do you say?} a word. {Wir|pron|we} stayed hiding. {Und|conj|and} {dass|conj|that}’s when {es|pron|it} happened.” {Er|pron|he} stubbed out {sein|pron|his} cigarette {und|conj|and} gave me an odd smile. “{Dass|conj|that}’s why {Ich|pron|i} brought {du|pron|you} {hier|adv|here}. {Also|conj|so} {du|pron|you} can {sehen|verb|see} {es|pron|it}—the scene of the crime.” “The crime?” Paul didn’t answer, just kept grinning at me. “What crime, Paul?” “Vernon’s crime. Uncle Vernon wasn’t a {gut|adj|good} man, {du|pron|you} {sehen|verb|see}. No, {nicht|adv|not} at all.” “What are {du|pron|you} trying to {sagen|verb|say|Was sagst du? — What do you say?}?” “Well, {dass|conj|that}’s when {er|pron|he} did {es|pron|it}.” “Did what?” “{Dass|conj|that}’s when {er|pron|he} killed Alicia.” {Ich|pron|i} stared at Paul, unable to believe {mein|pron|my} ears. “Killed Alicia? What are {du|pron|you}

talking about?” Paul pointed at the ground below. “Uncle Vernon was down {dort|adv|there} with Mum. {Er|pron|he} was drunk. Mum kept trying to get him to {gehen|verb|go} back inside. {Aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} stood down {dort|adv|there}, yelling for Alicia. {Er|pron|he} was {also|conj|so} {wütend|adj|angry|Er war wütend. — He was angry.} with her. {Er|pron|he} was {also|conj|so} mad.” “{Weil|conj|because} Alicia was hiding? {Aber|conj|but}—{sie|pron|she} was a child—her mother had just died.” “{Er|pron|he} was a mean bastard. The {nur|adv|only} person {er|pron|he} ever cared about was Auntie Eva. {Ich|pron|i} suppose {dass|conj|that}’s why {er|pron|he} said {es|pron|it}.” “Did what?” {Ich|pron|i} was losing patience. “{Ich|pron|i} don’t understand what {du|pron|you}’re saying to me. What exactly happened?” “Vernon was going on about how much {er|pron|he} loved Eva—how {er|pron|he} couldn’t live without her. ‘{Mein|pron|my} girl,’ {er|pron|he} kept saying, ‘{mein|pron|my} {arm|adj|poor|Sie ist arm. — She is poor.} girl, {mein|pron|my} Eva … Why did {sie|pron|she} have to die? Why did {es|pron|it} have to be her? Why didn’t Alicia die instead?’” {Ich|pron|i} stared at Paul for a second, stunned. {Ich|pron|i} wasn’t sure {Ich|pron|i} understood. “‘Why didn’t Alicia die instead?’” “{Dass|conj|that}’s what {er|pron|he} said.” “Alicia heard {dies|pron|this}?” “Yeah. {Und|conj|and} Alicia whispered {etwas|pron|something} to me—{Ich|pron|i}’ll {nie|adv|never} forget {es|pron|it}. ‘{Er|pron|he} killed me,’ {sie|pron|she} said. ‘Dad just—killed me.’” {Ich|pron|i} stared at Paul, speechless. A chorus of bells started ringing in {mein|pron|my} head, clanging, chiming, reverberating. {Dies|pron|this} was what {Ich|pron|i}’d been looking for. {Ich|pron|i}’d found {es|pron|it}, the missing piece of the jigsaw, at last—{hier|adv|here} on a roof in Cambridge. * * * All the way back to London, {Ich|pron|i} kept thinking about the implications of what {Ich|pron|i} had heard. {Ich|pron|i} understood {jetzt|adv|now} why Alcestis had struck a chord with Alicia. Just as Admetus had physically condemned Alcestis to die, {also|conj|so} had Vernon Rose psychically condemned {sein|pron|his} daughter to death. Admetus must have loved Alcestis, on some level, {aber|conj|but} {dort|adv|there} was no love in Vernon Rose, just hate. {Er|pron|he} had committed psychic infanticide—{und|conj|and} Alicia knew {es|pron|it}. “{Er|pron|he} killed me,” {sie|pron|she} said. “Dad just killed me.” {Jetzt|adv|now}, at last, {Ich|pron|i} had {etwas|pron|something} to {arbeiten|verb|work|Wir arbeiten viel. — We work a lot.} with. {Etwas|pron|something} {Ich|pron|i} knew about—the emotional effects of psychological wounds on children, {und|conj|and} how {sie|pron|they}

manifest themselves later in adults. Imagine {es|pron|it}—hearing {dein|pron|your} father, the {sehr|adv|very} person {du|pron|you} depend upon for {dein|pron|your} survival, wishing {du|pron|you} dead. How terrifying {dass|conj|that} must be for a child, how traumatizing—how {dein|pron|your} sense of self-worth would implode, {und|conj|and} the pain would be too great, too huge to feel, {also|conj|so} {du|pron|you}’d swallow {es|pron|it}, repress {es|pron|it}, bury {es|pron|it}. Over time {du|pron|you} would lose contact with the origins of {dein|pron|your} trauma, dissociate the roots of its cause, {und|conj|and} forget. {Aber|conj|but} one day, all the hurt {und|conj|and} anger would burst forth, like fire from a dragon’s belly—{und|conj|and} {du|pron|you}’d pick up a gun. {Du|pron|you}’d visit {dass|conj|that} rage {nicht|adv|not} upon {dein|pron|your} father, who was dead {und|conj|and} forgotten {und|conj|and} out of reach—{aber|conj|but} upon {dein|pron|your} husband, the man who had taken {sein|pron|his} place in {dein|pron|your} life, who loved {du|pron|you} {und|conj|and} shared {dein|pron|your} bed. {Du|pron|you}’d shoot him five times in the head, without possibly even knowing why. The train raced through the night back to London. At last, {Ich|pron|i} thought—at last {Ich|pron|i} knew how to reach her. {Jetzt|adv|now} {wir|pron|we} could begin.

---

## New Words This Chapter

| English | German | Type |
|---------|--------|------|
| young | jung | adj |
| safe | sicher | adj |
