# Chapter 9

---

{Ich|pron|i} DESPERATELY NEEDED A CIGARETTE. As {Ich|pron|i} left the Grove, {Ich|pron|i} looked for them in {mein|pron|my} coat pockets, {aber|conj|but|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} {sie|pron|they|Sie sind hier. — They are here.} weren’t there. “Looking for {etwas|pron|something|Etwas ist falsch. — Something is wrong.}?” {Ich|pron|i} turned around. Yuri was standing right behind me. {Ich|pron|i} hadn’t heard him {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} was a little startled to find him so close. “{Ich|pron|i} found them in the nurses’ station.” {Er|pron|he} grinned, handing me {mein|pron|my} pack of cigarettes. “Must have fallen out of {dein|pron|your|Dein Haus ist groß. — Your house is big.} pocket.” “Thanks.” {Ich|pron|i} took them {und|conj|and} lit one. {Ich|pron|i} offered him the packet. Yuri shook {sein|pron|his} head. “{Ich|pron|i} don’t smoke. Not cigarettes, anyway.” {Er|pron|he} laughed. “{Du|pron|you} look like {du|pron|you} need a drink. Come on, {Ich|pron|i}’ll buy {du|pron|you} a pint.” {Ich|pron|i} hesitated. {Mein|pron|my} instinct was to refuse—{Ich|pron|i} had never been one for socializing with work colleagues. {Und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} doubted Yuri {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} had much in common. {Aber|conj|but|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} {er|pron|he} probably knew Alicia better than anyone else at the Grove— {und|conj|and} {sein|pron|his} insights might prove useful. “Sure,” {Ich|pron|i} said. “Why not?” {Wir|pron|we} went to a pub near the station, the Slaughtered Lamb. Dark {und|conj|and} dingy, {es|pron|it} had seen better days; so had the old men dozing over their half-finished pints. Yuri got us a couple of beers, {und|conj|and} {wir|pron|we} sat at a table at the back. Yuri took a long swig of beer {und|conj|and} wiped {sein|pron|his} mouth. “Well? Tell me about Alicia.” “Alicia?” “How did {du|pron|you} find her?” “{Ich|pron|i}’m not sure {Ich|pron|i} did find her.” Yuri gave me a quizzical look, then smiled. “{Sie|pron|she} doesn’t want to be found? Yeah, {es|pron|it}’s true. {Sie|pron|she}’s hiding.” “{Du|pron|you}’re close to her. {Ich|pron|i} can see that.” “{Ich|pron|i} take special care of her. No one knows her like {Ich|pron|i} do, not even Professor Diomedes.” {Sein|pron|his} voice had a boastful note. {Es|pron|it} annoyed me for some reason—{Ich|pron|i} wondered how well {er|pron|he} really knew her, {oder|conj|or|Jetzt oder nie. — Now or never.} if {er|pron|he} was just bragging. “What do {du|pron|you} make of her silence? What do {du|pron|you} think {es|pron|it} means?” Yuri shrugged. “{Ich|pron|i} guess {es|pron|it} means {sie|pron|she}’s not ready to talk. {Sie|pron|she}’ll talk when {sie|pron|she}’s ready.” “Ready for what?” “Ready for the truth, {mein|pron|my} friend.” “{Und|conj|and} what is that?” Yuri cocked {sein|pron|his} head to one side slightly, studying me. The question that came out of {sein|pron|his} mouth surprised me. “Are {du|pron|you} married, Theo?” {Ich|pron|i} nodded. “{Ich|pron|i} am, yes.” “Yeah, {Ich|pron|i} thought so. {Ich|pron|i} was married once too. {Wir|pron|we} moved here from Latvia. {Aber|conj|but|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} {sie|pron|she} didn’t fit in like {Ich|pron|i} did. {Sie|pron|she} didn’t make an effort, {du|pron|you} know, {sie|pron|she} didn’t learn English. Anyway, {es|pron|it} wasn’t … {Ich|pron|i} wasn’t happy—{aber|conj|but|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} {Ich|pron|i} was in denial, lying to myself.…” {Er|pron|he} drained {sein|pron|his} drink {und|conj|and} completed {sein|pron|his} sentence. “Until {Ich|pron|i} fell in love.” “Presumably {du|pron|you} don’t mean with {dein|pron|your|Dein Haus ist groß. — Your house is big.} wife?” Yuri laughed {und|conj|and} shook {sein|pron|his} head. “No. A woman who lived near me. A very beautiful woman. {Es|pron|it} was love at first sight. {Ich|pron|i} saw her on the street. {Es|pron|it} took me a long time to get the courage to talk her. {Ich|pron|i} used to follow her.… {Ich|pron|i}’d watch her sometimes, without her knowing. {Ich|pron|i}’d stand outside her house {und|conj|and} look, hoping {sie|pron|she} would appear at the window.” {Er|pron|he} laughed. {Dies|pron|this|Dies ist gut. — This is good.} story was starting to make me feel uncomfortable. {Ich|pron|i} finished {mein|pron|my} beer {und|conj|and} glanced at {mein|pron|my} watch, hoping Yuri would take the hint, {aber|conj|but|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} {er|pron|he} didn’t. “One day {Ich|pron|i} tried speaking to her. {Aber|conj|but|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} {sie|pron|she} wasn’t interested in me. {Ich|pron|i} tried a few times, {aber|conj|but|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} {sie|pron|she} told me to stop pestering her.” {Ich|pron|i} didn’t blame her, {Ich|pron|i} thought. {Ich|pron|i} was about to make {mein|pron|my} excuses, {aber|conj|but|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} Yuri kept talking. “{Es|pron|it} was very hard to accept. {Ich|pron|i} was sure {wir|pron|we} were meant to be together. {Sie|pron|she} broke {mein|pron|my} heart. {Ich|pron|i} got very angry with her. Very mad.” “{Und|conj|and} what happened?” {Ich|pron|i} was curious despite myself. “{Nichts|pron|nothing|Nichts ist falsch. — Nothing is wrong.}.” “{Nichts|pron|nothing|Nichts ist falsch. — Nothing is wrong.}? {Du|pron|you} stayed with {dein|pron|your|Dein Haus ist groß. — Your house is big.} wife?” Yuri shook {sein|pron|his} head. “No. {Es|pron|it} was over with her. {Aber|conj|but|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} {es|pron|it} took falling for {dies|pron|this|Dies ist gut. — This is good.} woman for me to admit {es|pron|it} … to face the truth about me {und|conj|and} {mein|pron|my} wife. Sometimes {es|pron|it} takes courage, {du|pron|you} know, {und|conj|and} a long time, to be honest.” “{Ich|pron|i} see. {Und|conj|and} {du|pron|you} think Alicia’s not ready to face the truth about her marriage? Is that what {du|pron|you}’re saying? {Du|pron|you} may well be right.” Yuri shrugged. “{Und|conj|and} now {Ich|pron|i}’m engaged to a nice girl from Hungary. {Sie|pron|she} works in a spa. {Sie|pron|she} speaks good English. {Wir|pron|we}’re a good match. {Wir|pron|we} have a good time.” {Ich|pron|i} nodded {und|conj|and} checked {mein|pron|my} watch again. {Ich|pron|i} picked up {mein|pron|my} coat. “{Ich|pron|i} have to go. {Ich|pron|i}’m late to meet {mein|pron|my} wife.” “Okay, no problem … What’s her name? {Dein|pron|your|Dein Haus ist groß. — Your house is big.} wife?” For some reason, {Ich|pron|i} didn’t want to tell him. {Ich|pron|i} didn’t want Yuri to know anything about her. {Aber|conj|but|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} that was stupid. “Kathryn. Her name is Kathryn. {Aber|conj|but|Klein, aber stark. — Small, but strong.} {Ich|pron|i} call her Kathy.” Yuri gave me an odd smile. “Let me give {du|pron|you} some advice. Go home to {dein|pron|your|Dein Haus ist groß. — Your house is big.} wife. Go home to Kathy, who loves {du|pron|you}.… {Und|conj|and} leave Alicia behind.”

---

## New Words This Chapter

| English | German | Type |
|---------|--------|------|
| but | aber | conj |
| or | oder | conj |
