# Chapter 11

---

“{Ich|pron|i}’M LOOKING FOR ELIF, Any idea where {Ich|pron|i} can find her?” Yuri gave me a curious look. “Any reason {du|pron|you} want her?” “Just to say a quick hello. {Ich|pron|i} want to meet all the patients—let them know who {Ich|pron|i} am, {dass|conj|that} {Ich|pron|i}’m {hier|adv|here|Ich bin hier. — I am here.}.” Yuri looked doubtful. “Right. Well, don’t take {es|pron|it} personally {wenn|conj|if} {sie|pron|she}’s {nicht|adv|not} {sehr|adv|very|Sehr gut. — Very good.} receptive.” {Er|pron|he} glanced at the clock on the wall. “{Es|pron|it}’s after half past, {also|conj|so} {sie|pron|she}’s just out of art therapy. {Dein|pron|your} best bet is the recreation room.” “Thanks.” The recreation area was a large circular room furnished with battered couches, low tables, a bookcase full of tattered books no one wanted to read. {Es|pron|it} smelled of stale tea {und|conj|and} old cigarette smoke {dass|conj|that} had stained the furnishings. A couple of patients were playing backgammon in a corner. Elif was alone at the pool table. {Ich|pron|i} approached with a smile. “Hello, Elif.” {Sie|pron|she} looked up with scared, mistrustful eyes. “What?” “Don’t worry, {dort|adv|there|Sie ist dort. — She is there.}’s {nichts|pron|nothing|Nichts ist falsch. — Nothing is wrong.} wrong. {Ich|pron|i} just want a quick word.” “{Du|pron|you} ain’t {mein|pron|my} doctor. {Ich|pron|i} {schon|adv|already|Schon wieder. — Already again.} got one.” “{Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} a doctor. {Ich|pron|i}’m a psychotherapist.” Elif grunted contemptuously. “{Ich|pron|i} got one of them too.” {Ich|pron|i} smiled, secretly relieved {sie|pron|she} was Indira’s patient {und|conj|and} {nicht|adv|not} mine. Up close Elif was even more intimidating. {Es|pron|it} wasn’t just her massive size, {aber|conj|but} {auch|adv|also|Ich auch. — Me too.} the rage etched deep into her face—a permanent scowl {und|conj|and} angry black eyes, eyes {dass|conj|that} were quite clearly disturbed. {Sie|pron|she} stank of sweat {und|conj|and} the hand-rolled cigarettes {sie|pron|she} was {immer|adv|always|Immer und ewig. — Always and forever.} smoking, {dass|conj|that} had left her fingertips stained black {und|conj|and} her nails {und|conj|and} teeth a dark yellow. “{Ich|pron|i} just wanted to ask {du|pron|you} a couple of questions, {wenn|conj|if} {dass|conj|that}’s okay—about Alicia.” Elif scowled {und|conj|and} banged the cue on the table. {Sie|pron|she} starting setting up the balls for another game. {Dann|adv|then|Dann gehen wir. — Then we go.} {sie|pron|she} stopped. {Sie|pron|she} just stood {dort|adv|there|Sie ist dort. — She is there.}, looking distracted, in silence.

“Elif?” {Sie|pron|she} didn’t respond. {Ich|pron|i} could tell from her expression what was wrong. “Are {du|pron|you} hearing voices, Elif?” A suspicious glance. A shrug. “What are {sie|pron|they} saying?” “{Du|pron|you} ain’t safe. Telling me to watch out.” “{Ich|pron|i} see. Quite right. {Du|pron|you} don’t know me—{also|conj|so} {es|pron|it}’s sensible {nicht|adv|not} to trust me. {Nicht|adv|not} yet. Perhaps, over time, {dass|conj|that} will change.” Elif gave me a look {dass|conj|that} suggested {sie|pron|she} doubted {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} nodded at the pool table. “Fancy a game?” “Nope.” “Why {nicht|adv|not}?” {Sie|pron|she} shrugged. “Other cue’s broke. {Sie|pron|they} ain’t replaced {es|pron|it} yet.” “{Aber|conj|but} {Ich|pron|i} can share {dein|pron|your} cue, can’t {Ich|pron|i}?” The cue was resting on the table. {Ich|pron|i} went to touch {es|pron|it}—{und|conj|and} {sie|pron|she} yanked {es|pron|it} out of reach. “{Es|pron|it}’s {mein|pron|my} fuckin’ cue! Get {dein|pron|your} own!” {Ich|pron|i} stepped back, unnerved by the ferocity of her reaction. {Sie|pron|she} played a shot with considerable force. {Ich|pron|i} watched her play for a moment. {Dann|adv|then|Dann gehen wir. — Then we go.} {Ich|pron|i} tried {wieder|adv|again|Schon wieder. — Already again.}. “{Ich|pron|i} was wondering {wenn|conj|if} {du|pron|you} could tell me about {etwas|pron|something} {dass|conj|that} happened when Alicia was first admitted to the Grove. Do {du|pron|you} remember?” Elif shook her head. “{Ich|pron|i} read in her file {dass|conj|that} {du|pron|you} had an altercation in the canteen. {Du|pron|you} were on the receiving end of an attack?” “Oh, yeah, yeah, {sie|pron|she} tried to kill me, innit? Tried to cut {mein|pron|my} fucking throat.” “According to the handover notes, a nurse saw {du|pron|you} whisper {etwas|pron|something} to Alicia before the attack. {Ich|pron|i} was wondering what {es|pron|it} was?” “No.” Elif shook her head furiously. “{Ich|pron|i} didn’t say {nichts|pron|nothing|Nichts ist falsch. — Nothing is wrong.}.” “{Ich|pron|i}’m {nicht|adv|not} trying to suggest {du|pron|you} provoked her. {Ich|pron|i}’m just curious. What was {es|pron|it}?”

“{Ich|pron|i} asked her {etwas|pron|something}, {also|conj|so} fucking what?” “What did {du|pron|you} ask?” “{Ich|pron|i} asked {wenn|conj|if} {er|pron|he} deserved {es|pron|it}.” “Who?” “Him. Her bloke.” Elif smiled, {obwohl|conj|although|Obwohl es regnet. — Although it's raining.} {es|pron|it} wasn’t {wirklich|adv|really|Wirklich wahr. — Really true.} a smile, more a misshapen grimace. “{Du|pron|you} mean her husband?” {Ich|pron|i} hesitated, unsure {wenn|conj|if} {Ich|pron|i} understood. “{Du|pron|you} asked Alicia {wenn|conj|if} her husband deserved to be killed?” Elif nodded {und|conj|and} played a shot. “{Und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} asked what {er|pron|he} looked like. When {sie|pron|she} shot him {und|conj|and} {sein|pron|his} skull was broke, {und|conj|and} {sein|pron|his} brains all spilled out.” Elif laughed. {Ich|pron|i} felt a sudden wave of disgust—similar to the feelings {Ich|pron|i} imagined Elif had provoked in Alicia. Elif made {du|pron|you} feel repulsion {und|conj|and} hatred—{dass|conj|that} was her pathology, {dass|conj|that} was how her mother had made her feel as a small child. Hateful {und|conj|and} repulsive. {Also|conj|so} Elif unconsciously provoked {du|pron|you} to hate her—{und|conj|and} mostly {sie|pron|she} succeeded. “{Und|conj|and} how are things {jetzt|adv|now|Jetzt oder nie. — Now or never.}? Are {du|pron|you} {und|conj|and} Alicia on good terms?” “Oh, yeah, mate. {Wir|pron|we}’re real tight. Best mates.” Elif laughed {wieder|adv|again|Schon wieder. — Already again.}. Before {Ich|pron|i} could respond, {Ich|pron|i} felt {mein|pron|my} phone vibrating in {mein|pron|my} pocket. {Ich|pron|i} checked {es|pron|it}. {Ich|pron|i} didn’t recognize the number. “{Ich|pron|i} should answer {dies|pron|this}. Thank {du|pron|you}. {Du|pron|you}’ve been {sehr|adv|very|Sehr gut. — Very good.} helpful.” Elif muttered {etwas|pron|something} unintelligible {und|conj|and} went back to her game. * * * {Ich|pron|i} walked into the corridor {und|conj|and} answered the phone. “Hello?” “Is {dass|conj|that} Theo Faber?” “Speaking. Who’s {dies|pron|this}?” “Max Berenson {hier|adv|here|Ich bin hier. — I am here.}, returning {dein|pron|your} call.” “Oh, yes. Hi. Thanks for calling me back. {Ich|pron|i} was wondering {wenn|conj|if} {wir|pron|we} could have a conversation about Alicia?” “Why? What’s happened? Is {etwas|pron|something} wrong?” “No. {Ich|pron|i} mean, {nicht|adv|not} exactly—{Ich|pron|i}’m treating her, {und|conj|and} {Ich|pron|i} wanted to ask {du|pron|you} a

couple of questions about her. Whenever’s convenient.” “{Ich|pron|i} don’t suppose {wir|pron|we} could do {es|pron|it} on the phone? {Ich|pron|i}’m rather busy.” “{Ich|pron|i}’d rather talk in person, {wenn|conj|if} possible.” Max Berenson sighed {und|conj|and} mumbled as {er|pron|he} spoke to {jemand|pron|someone|Jemand ist da. — Someone is there.} off the phone. {Und|conj|and} {dann|adv|then|Dann gehen wir. — Then we go.}: “{Morgen|adv|tomorrow|Morgen sehen wir uns. — Tomorrow we'll see each other.} evening, seven o’clock, {mein|pron|my} office.” {Ich|pron|i} was about to ask for the address—{aber|conj|but} {er|pron|he} hung up.

---

## New Words This Chapter

| English | German | Type |
|---------|--------|------|
| already | schon | adv |
| really | wirklich | adv |
