# ALEX

---

{ich|pron|I} slammed my fist into the mannequin's face, reveling {in|prep|in} the sharp burst of pain that jolted up my arm at the impact. My muscles burned {und|conj|and} sweat dripped down my forehead into my eyes, blurring my vision, {aber|conj|but|Ich bin müde, aber glücklich. — I am tired, but happy.} {ich|pron|I} didn't stop. I'd done this so many times {ich|pron|I} didn't have to see to land my hits. The smell of sweat {und|conj|and} violence stained the air. This {war|verb|was} the one place {ich|pron|I} allowed myself to unleash the anger {ich|pron|I} kept under careful wraps {in|prep|in} all other areas of my life. I'd started Krav Maga training a decade ago {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} self-defense, {aber|conj|but|Ich bin müde, aber glücklich. — I am tired, but happy.} {es|pron|it} had since become my catharsis, my sanctuary. By the time {ich|pron|I} finished pummeling the mannequin, my body {war|verb|was} a mess of aches {und|conj|and} sweat. {Ich|pron|I} toweled the perspiration off my face {und|conj|and} took a swig of water. Work had been a bitch, {und|conj|and} I'd needed this release to reset.

"Hope {du|pron|you} worked off your frustration," Ralph, the owner of the training center {und|conj|and} my personal instructor since I'd moved to D.C., said dryly. Short {und|conj|and} stocky, {er|pron|he} had the powerful build of a fighter {und|conj|and} a mean mug, {aber|conj|but|Ich bin müde, aber glücklich. — I am tired, but happy.} deep down, {er|pron|he} {war|verb|was} a teddy bear. He'd knock my lights out if {ich|pron|I} ever told him or anyone else that though. "{Du|pron|you} looked like {du|pron|you} had a personal vendetta against Harper." Ralph named all the training dummies after TV characters or real- life people {er|pron|he} didn't like.

"Shitty week." We were alone {in|prep|in} the private training studio, so {ich|pron|I} spoke more freely than {ich|pron|I} would have otherwise. Besides Josh, Ralph {war|verb|was} the only person {ich|pron|I} considered a true friend. "{Ich|pron|I} could go {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} the real thing right now." Dummies were good {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} practice, {aber|conj|but} Krav Maga {war|verb|was} a hand-to- hand combat method {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} a reason. {Es|pron|it} {war|verb|was} all about the interaction between yourself {und|conj|and} your opponent {und|conj|and} responding quickly. Couldn't do that if your opponent {war|verb|was} an inanimate object.

"Yeah, let's do {es|pron|it}. Gotta end right at seven, though—no overtime. There's a new class coming {in|prep|in}." {Ich|pron|I} raised my eyebrows. "Class?" The KM Academy catered toward intermediate to advanced practitioners {und|conj|and} specialized {in|prep|in} one-on-one or small group sessions. {Es|pron|it} didn't host large classes the way most other centers did. Ralph shrugged. "Yeah. We're opening the center up to beginners. Just one class {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} now, see how {es|pron|it} goes. Missy bugged {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.} about {es|pron|it} until {ich|pron|I} agreed—said people would be interested {in|prep|in} learning {es|pron|it} {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} self-defense {und|conj|and} that we have the best instructors {in|prep|in} the city." {Er|pron|he} barked out a laugh. "Thirty years of marriage. {Sie|pron|she} knows how to stroke the ol' ego. So here we are."

"{Nicht|adv|not} to mention, it's a good business decision." KMA had little competition {in|prep|in} the area, {und|conj|and} there {war|verb|was} likely pent-up demand {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} lessons, {nicht|adv|not} to mention loads of yuppies who could afford the prices. Ralph's eyes twinkled. "That, too." {Ich|pron|I} took another swig of water, my mind spinning. Beginner lessons... Might be a good idea {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} Ava. {Für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} anyone, really, man or woman. Self-defense is a skill {du|pron|you} never want to use, {aber|conj|but} which could mean the difference between life {und|conj|and} death when {du|pron|you} do have to use {es|pron|it}. Pepper spray only gets {du|pron|you} so far. {Ich|pron|I} fired off a quick text to her before Ralph {und|conj|and} {ich|pron|I} started our session. {Ich|pron|I} still wasn't happy playing babysitter, {aber|conj|but} Ava {und|conj|and} {ich|pron|I} had settled into a wary "truce"—her word, {nicht|adv|not} mine—since her olive branch the week before. Plus, when {ich|pron|I} commit to something, {ich|pron|I} commit to {es|pron|it} one hundred percent. No half-assery or phoning {es|pron|it} {in|prep|in}. {Ich|pron|I} promised Josh I'd look after his sister, {und|conj|and} that {war|verb|was} what I'd do. Sign her up {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} self-defense lessons, upgrade her house's shitty alarm system—she'd thrown a fit when the security company woke her up at seven {in|prep|in} the morning to install the new system, {aber|conj|but} {sie|pron|she} got over {es|pron|it}—whatever {es|pron|it} took. The more {sie|pron|she} stayed out of trouble, the less {ich|pron|I} had to worry about her {und|conj|and} the more {ich|pron|I} could focus on my business {und|conj|and} plan {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} revenge. {Ich|pron|I} wouldn't mind more of those red velvet cookies though. They were good. {Ich|pron|I} especially wouldn't mind if {sie|pron|she} delivered them wearing the tiny shorts {und|conj|and} tank top she'd worn to my house. An unbidden image of a bead of sweat trailing down her bronzed skin into her cleavage flashed through my mind. {Ich|pron|I} grunted when Ralph landed a punch {in|prep|in} my gut. Fuck. That {war|verb|was} what {ich|pron|I} got {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} allowing my thoughts to stray. {Ich|pron|I} set my jaw {und|conj|and} refocused on the training session, pushing all thoughts of Ava Chen {und|conj|and} her cleavage out of my head. An hour later, my limbs felt like jelly, {und|conj|and} {ich|pron|I} had several blossoming bruises on my body. {Ich|pron|I} grimaced, stretching out my limbs while the low hum of voices filtered through the closed door to the private studio.

"That's my cue." Ralph clapped {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.} on the shoulder. "Good session. {Du|pron|you} might even beat {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.} one day—if you're lucky." {Ich|pron|I} smirked. "Fuck {du|pron|you}. {Ich|pron|I} can already beat {du|pron|you} if {ich|pron|I} want." I'd come close to doing {es|pron|it} once, {aber|conj|but} part of {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.} liked the fact {ich|pron|I} wasn't the best—yet. {Es|pron|it} gave {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.} a goal to strive toward. {Aber|conj|but} {ich|pron|I} would win. {Ich|pron|I} always did. Ralph's laugh rolled through the sweat-dampened space like thunder. "Keep telling yourself that, kid. See {du|pron|you} Tuesday." After {er|pron|he} exited the room, {ich|pron|I} checked my phone {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} new messages. Nothing. A tiny furrow creased my brow. I'd texted Ava almost an hour ago, {und|conj|and} {sie|pron|she} {war|verb|was} a compulsively fast replier unless {sie|pron|she} had a photoshoot. {Sie|pron|she} didn't have one today. {Ich|pron|I} knew because {ich|pron|I} made her promise to tell {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.} every time {sie|pron|she} did, along with the location {und|conj|and} clients' names {und|conj|and} contact info. {Ich|pron|I} always ran background checks on the clients beforehand. There were crazy people out there. {Ich|pron|I} sent a follow-up text. Waited. Nothing. {Ich|pron|I} called. No answer. Either she'd turned off her phone—something {ich|pron|I} told her never to do—or {sie|pron|she} could be {in|prep|in} trouble. Blood. Everywhere. On my hands. On my clothes. My heart rate ticked up. The familiar noose around my neck tightened. {Ich|pron|I} squeezed my eyes shut, focusing on a different day, a different memory—that of {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.} attending my first Krav Maga lesson at sixteen —until the red stains of my past retreated. When {ich|pron|I} opened them again, anger {und|conj|and} worry coalesced into a block {in|prep|in} my stomach, {und|conj|and} {ich|pron|I} didn't bother changing out of my training clothes before {ich|pron|I} exited the center {und|conj|and} took off {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} Ava's house.

"{Du|pron|you} better be there," {ich|pron|I} muttered. {Ich|pron|I} blocked {und|conj|and} flipped off a Mercedes who tried to cut {in|prep|in} front of {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.} at Dupont Circle. The driver, an overgroomed lawyer type, glared at {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.}, {aber|conj|but} {ich|pron|I} didn't give a shit. If {du|pron|you} can't drive, get off the road. By the time {ich|pron|I} arrived at Ava's place, {ich|pron|I} still hadn't received a reply, {und|conj|and} a muscle pulsed dangerously {in|prep|in} my temple. If {sie|pron|she} {war|verb|was} ignoring {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.}, {sie|pron|she} {war|verb|was} {in|prep|in} deep shit. {Und|conj|and} if {sie|pron|she} {war|verb|was} hurt, {ich|pron|I} would bury the person responsible six feet beneath the ground. {In|prep|in} pieces.

"Where is {sie|pron|she}?" {Ich|pron|I} dispensed of the usual greetings when Jules swung open the door.

"Who?" {sie|pron|she} asked, all doe-eyed innocence. {Ich|pron|I} wasn't fooled. Jules Ambrose {war|verb|was} one of the most dangerous women I'd ever met, {und|conj|and} anyone who thought otherwise because of the way {sie|pron|she} looked {und|conj|and} flirted {war|verb|was} an idiot.

"Ava," {ich|pron|I} growled. "She's {nicht|adv|not} answering her phone."

"Maybe she's busy."

"Don't fuck with {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.}, Jules. {Sie|pron|she} could be {in|prep|in} trouble, {und|conj|and} {ich|pron|I} know your boss. Wouldn't take much more than a word from {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.} to derail your internship." I'd done my research on all of Ava's closest friends. Jules {war|verb|was} pre-law, {und|conj|and} the internship between a student's junior {und|conj|and} senior years {war|verb|was} critical {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} admittance into a competitive law school. All traces of flirty coquettishness melted. Jules narrowed her eyes. "Don't threaten {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.}."

"Don't play games." We glared at each other {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} a minute, precious seconds ticking by before {sie|pron|she} relented. "She's {nicht|adv|not} {in|prep|in} trouble, okay? She's with a friend. Like {ich|pron|I} said, she's probably busy. She's {nicht|adv|not} glued to her phone."

"Address."

"You're hot, {aber|conj|but} {du|pron|you} can be a real overbearing asshole."

"Address." Jules huffed out a sigh. "I'm only telling {du|pron|you} if {ich|pron|I} can go with {du|pron|you}. To make sure {du|pron|you} don't do anything stupid." {Ich|pron|I} {war|verb|was} already halfway to my car. Five minutes later, we were speeding back to D.C. {Ich|pron|I} {war|verb|was} going to bill Josh {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} all my gas expenses when {er|pron|he} returned, just out of spite.

"Why are {du|pron|you} so concerned? Ava has her own life, {und|conj|and} she's {nicht|adv|not} a dog. {Sie|pron|she} doesn't have to jump every time {du|pron|you} say fetch." Jules flipped down the visor mirror {und|conj|and} retouched her lipstick when we stopped at a red light.

"{Für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} someone who claims to be her best friend, you're {nicht|adv|not} concerned enough." Irritation coiled {in|prep|in} my stomach. "When have {du|pron|you} known her {nicht|adv|not} to reply within minutes of receiving a text or a call?"

"Uh, when she's {in|prep|in} the bathroom. Class. Work. Sleeping. Showering. A photo—"

"It's been almost an hour," {ich|pron|I} snapped. Jules shrugged. "Maybe she's having sex." A muscle jumped {in|prep|in} my jaw. {Ich|pron|I} wasn't sure which version of Jules {war|verb|was} worse—the one who always tried to convince {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.} to mow the lawn shirtless, or the one who relished baiting {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.}. Why couldn't Ava have lived with one of her other friends? Stella seemed more accommodating, {und|conj|and} given her background, Bridget wouldn't ever say the shit Jules said. {Aber|conj|but} no, {ich|pron|I} {war|verb|was} stuck with the redheaded menace. No wonder Josh always complained about her.

"{Du|pron|you} said she's with a friend." {Ich|pron|I} pulled onto the street where said friend's house {war|verb|was} located {und|conj|and} parked.

"A male friend." {Sie|pron|she} unbuckled her seatbelt with a beatific smile.

"Thanks {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} the ride {und|conj|and} conversation. {Es|pron|it} {war|verb|was}...enlightening." {Ich|pron|I} didn't bother asking her what {sie|pron|she} meant. She'd just feed {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.} a heap of sugar-laced bullshit. While Jules took her sweet time, {ich|pron|I} exited the car {und|conj|and} banged an impatient fist against the front door. {Es|pron|it} swung open a minute later, revealing a skinny, bespectacled man with confusion stamped on his face when {er|pron|he} saw Jules {und|conj|and} {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.} standing there. "Can {ich|pron|I} help {du|pron|you}?"

"Where's Ava?"

"She's upstairs, {aber|conj|but} who—" {ich|pron|I} shouldered my way past him, which wasn't hard considering {er|pron|he} weighed a hundred sixty, tops.

"Hey, {du|pron|you} can't go up there!" {er|pron|he} yelled. "They're {in|prep|in} the middle of something." Fuck. That. If Ava {war|verb|was} having sex—a dangerous rhythm pulsed behind my temple at the thought—that {war|verb|was} all the more reason {für|prep|for|Das ist für dich. — That is for you.} an interruption. Horny college guys were some of the most dangerous creatures {in|prep|in} existence. {Ich|pron|I} wondered if she'd gotten back together with her ex. Josh mentioned the weasel had cheated on her, {und|conj|and} {sie|pron|she} didn't seem like the type who'd crawl back to someone after they treated her terribly, {aber|conj|but} {ich|pron|I} wouldn't put anything past Miss Sunshine {und|conj|and} Roses. That bleeding heart of hers would land her {in|prep|in} a heap of trouble one day. Once {ich|pron|I} reached the second floor, {ich|pron|I} didn't need to guess what room {sie|pron|she} {war|verb|was} {in|prep|in}—{ich|pron|I} heard sounds bleeding through the half-open door at the end of the hall. Behind {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.}, Jules {und|conj|and} Spectacles pounded up the steps, the latter still blabbering about how {ich|pron|I} couldn't be up here even though {ich|pron|I} {war|verb|was} already fucking here. {Ich|pron|I} didn't know how humans survived this long. Most people were idiots. {Ich|pron|I} opened the door all the way {und|conj|and} froze. {Nicht|adv|not} sex. Worse. Ava stood {in|prep|in} the middle of the room, clad {in|prep|in} a skimpy black lace getup that left little to the imagination. {Sie|pron|she} huddled next to a guy with spiked blond hair holding a camera. They were whispering {und|conj|and} laughing while staring at the camera's display screen, so engrossed {in|prep|in} their little tête-à-tête they didn't notice they had company. My temple pulsed harder.

"What..." My voice sliced through the air like a whip. "Is going on here." {Es|pron|it} wasn't a question. {Ich|pron|I} knew what {war|verb|was} going on. The setup, the rumpled bed, Ava's outfit...they were {in|prep|in} the middle of a photoshoot. With Ava as the model. Dressed {in|prep|in} something that wouldn't be out of place {in|prep|in} Playboy magazine. The strappy concoction Ava wore barely covered the necessary bits. {Es|pron|it} looped around her neck, baring her shoulders, {und|conj|and} plunged to her navel {in|prep|in} the front. The high-cut bottom left her legs {und|conj|and} most of her ass bare, {und|conj|and} other than the areas covering her breasts {und|conj|and} between her legs, the sheer black lace revealed more than {es|pron|it} covered. I'd never seen her like this. {Es|pron|it} wasn't just the outfit; {es|pron|it} {war|verb|was} everything. The usually straight black hair that fell {in|prep|in} luscious waves down her back, the made-up face with the smoky eyes {und|conj|and} glossy red lips, the miles of golden skin {und|conj|and} curves that etched themselves into my brain forever. {Ich|pron|I} {war|verb|was} caught between disturbing lust—{sie|pron|she} {war|verb|was} my best friend's sister, {für|prep|for} fuck's sake—{und|conj|and} inexplicable fury that other men were seeing her like this. Ava's eyes widened with alarm when {sie|pron|she} spotted {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.}. "Alex? What are {du|pron|you} doing here?"

"{Ich|pron|I} tried to stop him," Spectacles panted, out of breath. Living proof that skinniness does {nicht|adv|not} equal fitness.

"He's here {für|prep|for} {du|pron|you}, babe." Jules leaned against the doorway, her amber eyes glowing with amusement. "{Du|pron|you} look super hot, by the way. Can't wait to see the pics."

"{Du|pron|you} are {nicht|adv|not} seeing the pics," {ich|pron|I} ground out. "No one is seeing the pics." {Ich|pron|I} yanked the blanket off the bed {und|conj|and} tossed {es|pron|it} over Ava's shoulders, covering her up. "We're leaving. Right now. {Und|conj|and} Blondie here is deleting every photo {er|pron|he} took of {du|pron|you}." Her jaw dropped. "No, I'm {nicht|adv|not}, {und|conj|and} no, he's {nicht|adv|not}. {Du|pron|you} can't tell {mich|pron|me|Sie sieht mich. — She sees me.} what to do." {Sie|pron|she} threw the blanket on the ground {und|conj|and} lifted her chin {in|prep|in} defiance. "You're {nicht|adv|not} my father or brother, {und|conj|and} even if {du|pron|you} were, {du|pron|you} have no say {in|prep|in} what {ich|pron|I} do {in|prep|in} my free time."

"He's taking photos of {du|pron|you} half-naked," {ich|pron|I} snapped. "Do {du|pron|you} know how destructive those can be if they're leaked? If a future employer sees them?"

"{Ich|pron|I} volunteered {für|prep|for} this," {sie|pron|she} snapped back. "It's boudoir photography. Artistic. People do this all the time. It's {nicht|adv|not} like I'm baring {es|pron|it} all {für|prep|for} a porn site. How did {du|pron|you} even know {ich|pron|I} {war|verb|was} here?"

"Oops," Jules said from behind us. {Sie|pron|she} didn't sound sorry at all.

"{Du|pron|you} might as well be." The simmering {in|prep|in} my blood had reached a full boil. "Get. Dressed."

"No-oh." Ava's glare intensified, {und|conj|and} {sie|pron|she} dragged out the word

"no" until {es|pron|it} had two syllables.

"Hey, dude, {ich|pron|I} don't mean no harm." Blondie let out a nervous chuckle. "Like {sie|pron|she} said, this is art. I'll edit {es|pron|it} so her face is {in|prep|in} shadow {und|conj|and} no one can tell it's her. {Ich|pron|I} just need the photos {für|prep|for} my port—what are {du|pron|you} doing?" {Er|pron|he} squawked {in|prep|in} protest when {ich|pron|I} snatched the camera out of his hands {und|conj|and} started deleting photos {aber|conj|but} fell silent when {ich|pron|I} leveled him with a death glare.

"Stop! You're being ridiculous." Ava tried to retrieve the camera, to no avail. "Do {du|pron|you} know how long those photos took? Stop. {Du|pron|you} are—" {Sie|pron|she} yanked on my arm. {Es|pron|it} didn't budge. "Being—" Another yank, same result. "Unreasonable!"

"I'm protecting {du|pron|you}, since {du|pron|you} clearly can't do {es|pron|it} yourself." My mood darkened further when {ich|pron|I} saw the pictures of her lying on the bed, staring sultrily at the camera. How long had {sie|pron|she} {und|conj|and} Blondie been doing this, alone? {Es|pron|it} didn't take a genius to figure out what had been going through his mind the entire time. {Es|pron|it} {war|verb|was} the same thing that would've gone through any red-blooded male's mind. Sex. {Ich|pron|I} hoped Blondie enjoyed his working pair of eyes while {er|pron|he} still had them. Ava stepped back {für|prep|for} a minute, then lunged {für|prep|for} the camera {in|prep|in} a poorly concealed attempt to catch {mich|pron|me} off guard. I'd expected the move, {aber|conj|but} {ich|pron|I} still grunted at the impact as {sie|pron|she} scrambled over {mich|pron|me} like a fucking spider monkey. Her breasts grazed my arm, {und|conj|and} her hair tickled my skin. My blood heated at the sensations. {Sie|pron|she} {war|verb|was} so close {ich|pron|I} could hear her breath coming out {in|prep|in} soft pants. {Ich|pron|I} tried {nicht|adv|not} to notice how her chest heaved or how smooth her skin felt pressed against mine. They were dangerous, twisting thoughts that had no place {in|prep|in} my mind. {Nicht|adv|not} now, {nicht|adv|not} ever.

"Give {es|pron|it} back," {sie|pron|she} ordered. {Es|pron|it} {war|verb|was} almost cute how {sie|pron|she} thought {sie|pron|she} could order {mich|pron|me} around.

"No." Ava narrowed her eyes. "If {du|pron|you} don't give {es|pron|it} back, {ich|pron|I} swear to God I'll walk out into the street wearing this outfit." Another bolt of fury sizzled through {mich|pron|me}. "{Du|pron|you} wouldn't."

"Try {mich|pron|me}." Our faces were inches apart, our words so soft no one could hear them except us. Nevertheless, {ich|pron|I} lowered my head so {ich|pron|I} could whisper right {in|prep|in} her ear. "If {du|pron|you} step a foot outside this room {in|prep|in} that outfit, I'll {nicht|adv|not} only delete every picture on this camera, {aber|conj|but} {ich|pron|I} will destroy your 'friend's' career until {er|pron|he} has to resort to advertising shitty five-dollar-an-hour headshots on Craigslist." A wintry smile touched my lips. "{Du|pron|you} wouldn't want that, would {du|pron|you}?" There are two ways to threaten people: attack them directly, or attack those they care about. {Ich|pron|I} wasn't above doing either. Ava's mouth trembled. {Sie|pron|she} believed {mich|pron|me}, as {sie|pron|she} should, because {ich|pron|I} meant every word. {Ich|pron|I} wasn't a senator or a lobbyist, {aber|conj|but} an obscene net worth, thick files of blackmail material, {und|conj|and} years of networking had granted {mich|pron|me} more than my fair share of influence {in|prep|in} D.C. "You're an asshole."

"Yes, {ich|pron|I} am, {und|conj|and} don't {du|pron|you} forget {es|pron|it}." {Ich|pron|I} straightened. "Get dressed." Ava didn't argue, {aber|conj|but} {sie|pron|she} also refused to look at {mich|pron|me} as {sie|pron|she} disappeared into the bathroom across the hall to change. Blondie {und|conj|and} Spectacles gaped at {mich|pron|me} like the devil himself had poofed into their house. Meanwhile, Jules grinned like {sie|pron|she} {war|verb|was} watching the most entertaining movie of the year. {Ich|pron|I} finished deleting the photos {und|conj|and} shoved the camera back into Blondie's hands. "Never ask Ava to do something like this again." {Ich|pron|I} towered over him, relishing the subtle shake of his shoulders as {er|pron|he} tried {nicht|adv|not} to cower. "If {du|pron|you} do, I'll know. {Und|conj|and} {du|pron|you} won't like what happens next."

"Okay," Blondie squeaked. The bathroom door opened. Ava brushed past {mich|pron|me} {und|conj|and} said something to Blondie {in|prep|in} a low voice. {Er|pron|he} nodded. {Sie|pron|she} placed a hand on his arm, {und|conj|and} my jaw ticked.

"Let's go." The words came out sharper than I'd intended. Ava finally looked at {mich|pron|me}, her eyes flashing. "We'll go when I'm ready." {Ich|pron|I} didn't know how Josh dealt with her all these years. Two weeks {in|prep|in}, {und|conj|and} {ich|pron|I} already wanted to strangle her. {Sie|pron|she} murmured something else to Blondie before {sie|pron|she} stalked past {mich|pron|me} without another word. Jules followed, still grinning. {Ich|pron|I} cast one last glare {in|prep|in} Blondie's direction before {ich|pron|I} left. Silence permeated the car as we drove back to Thayer. Jules sat {in|prep|in} the backseat, tapping away on her phone, while a stone-faced Ava stared out the window from the passenger seat, her shoulders tight. {Ich|pron|I} didn't mind silence. {Ich|pron|I} craved {es|pron|it}. There were few things {ich|pron|I} found more irritating than incessant, pointless conversation. The weather, the latest blockbuster, who broke up with who...who the fuck cared? Still, something compelled {mich|pron|me} to turn on the radio halfway through the drive, though {ich|pron|I} left the volume so low {ich|pron|I} almost couldn't hear the music.

"{Es|pron|it} {war|verb|was} {für|prep|for} your own good," {ich|pron|I} said over the teeny-tiny beats of the latest rap hit. Ava turned her body further away {und|conj|and} didn't respond. Fine. {Sie|pron|she} could be mad all {sie|pron|she} wanted. The only thing {ich|pron|I} regretted {war|verb|was} {nicht|adv|not} smashing Blondie's camera altogether. {Es|pron|it} wasn't like {ich|pron|I} cared about her silent treatment. {Nicht|adv|not} one bit.

---

## New Words This Chapter

| English | German | Type |
|---------|--------|------|
| me | mich | pron |
| for | für | prep |